On  , a moderate tropical storm was found due west of , .	
It continued northward while continuing to strengthen.	
The center of circulation (the center of the storm) just missed  during the afternoon of  .	
The storm became extratropical with winds of  mph ( km/h) after slightly weakening.	
The storm caused no reports of damages or deaths in .	
However, the hurricane weakened to a tropical storm again on   as it moved overland, and began to curve north-northwest, restrengthening to a major hurricane by   while it was west-southwest of .	
The hurricane made landfall over  on the evening of  .	
The hurricane passed over southern  near Pigeon Key and   on  .	
The hurricane continued traveling north-northwest; however, it was forced to re-curve south-southwest, as a result of a high-pressure area.	
The hurricane weakened to a tropical storm overland, eventually becoming a tropical depression.	
The system meandred into the   , making a final landfall in   on  .	

In , over  houses were destroyed, and the  and  churches were completely destroyed.	
The jail in  was nearly completely dismantled, and the prisoners were evacuated.	
In  , the Peninsula and  railcar sheds collapsed, with the roofs blown away.	
A two-story brick saloon was destroyed during the hurricane.	
The  telegraph office reported street flooding in the city, and that the telegraph office was flooded.	
Damage in  amounted to $160,000.	
In Key West, houses and trees were knocked down.	
In  , the tide was described as the "highest in  ," where streets were flooded throughout the city.	
At least  passengers on the steamers "
" and "Peerless" drowned during the storm near Elliott Key.	
The steamers "Campbell" and the "Sara" were destroyed near the Isle of , and the "Elmora" sank.	
Telegraph lines were also down south of .	

 sustained major damage from the hurricane, with  houses destroyed, and cable operators in , , and  were unable to reach telegraph services in the city.	
The wall of a legation of the   was blown down.	
's sea baths were severely damaged.	
's streetcar service was temporarily disrupted by the storm.	
Trees were blown down in the parks of .	
 people were killed in the city, while in ,  people were killed, with many others missing.	
In , the location of the  '  Infantry, tents were destroyed and there was widespread damage.	
However, nobody was killed or injured in the city.	
In  , tobacco crops were ruined, and  tobacco barns in the Alquízar municipality were destroyed.	
The sugar crop in Pinar del Río Province survived well during the hurricane.	
In the   section of , the banana crops were completely destroyed.	
Rivers topped their banks throughout the country.	

The  and only tropical storm of the season originated in a tropical wave, as indicated by weather maps from  .	
The  hurricane database initially listed the system as a tropical cyclone by  , although the  reanalysis concluded that a closed low pressure system had not yet developed.	
Maps from   display a weak low north of The ; however, other observations place the new cyclone further south.	
Decreases in air pressure occurred throughout the islands, providing "strong indications of a disturbance".	
The system is officially estimated to have become a tropical depression at  UTC on  , approximately  east of , .	
It became a tropical storm     and, that same evening, storm warnings were issued from the east coast of  to as far north as ,  .	

Forecasters began to issue advisories to weather stations in the   when the storm was detected on  .	
Forecasters then began to issue warnings to  and  on  .	
Evacuation reports in both  and , however, are unavailable.	
After the storm hit , forecasters predicted the storm might hit southern and western .	
Between   and , forecasters began to issue tropical storm warnings to the  Keys and ,  ahead of the storm due to shipping interests.	
By  , the hurricane trekked westward as forecast.	
At 5 PM (EST), the tropical storm warnings were then changed to hurricane warnings which extended to the  .	
On the , however, the hurricane did not recurve north and warnings for  and later the  Keys were dropped, as the storm instead continued west-northwest.	
Because the  hurricane was large (exact size unknown), forecasters began to issue tropical storm warnings from coastal  to the  .	
In addition, warnings were issued in , .	
Since it was clear that the hurricane would make landfall in , the warnings were changed for the entire  coastline.	
After the hurricane made landfall, officials continued to issue warnings until the storm dissipated on  .	

It crossed  on  , weakened to a tropical storm, and paralleled the north coast of .	
This fast moving storm turned northward, passing west of ,  on  .	
It dissipated on  .	

This large storm spread winds of  across , , , , and , .	
A total of  cattle were driven off of   into  .	
Heavy rains were common across southern , with numerous locations recording  to  of rainfall within  , which set daily rainfall records.	
The death toll in  was officially , but may have been as high as .	

The storm surge damaged a fishing pier in   and destroyed a casino in .	
In , much of the city was flooded, and  people were killed in drowning incidents and flying debris.	
In  , the hurricane destroyed the 
  , which was never rebuilt.	
In addition, the hurricane virtually destroyed much of Passage Key, part of which was later rebuilt.	
In , several buildings of the historic Ballast Point Pavilion were destroyed by the storm.	
A steamship capsized between  and  and there were reports of damage to several other small boats offshore.	
Agricultural damage from the hurricane was high, with citrus crop losses totaling to $1 million ( USD).	
Damage to fertilizer and other materials also totaled to $1 million ( USD).	
In all, the hurricane left  people dead ( unaccounted for) and left $ million dollars ( USD, $92.4 million ( USD).	

The  tropical cyclone of the season formed  miles ( km) southeast of ,  on  .	
It moved northwest and crossed the eastern  as a minimal tropical storm on  .	
On  , it passed east of  ,   and re-entered the  .	
On  , it quickly strengthened to the equivalent of a Category  hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.	
The cyclone slowed and turned west on  , and it continued to strengthen east of the northern .	
The cyclone strengthened to a peak intensity of  mph ( km/h) north of   on  .	
At the time, the storm was nearly stationary.	
Several ships reported winds of hurricane force, rough seas, and atmospheric pressure readings to  mbar ( inHg) from   through  .	
The cyclone turned sharply north, remaining east of the  .	
On  , it quickly weakened, and it passed close to   on  .	
It transitioned to an extratropical cyclone, and it passed over   on  .	
The approach of the storm led to the issuance of storm warnings from   to ,  on  .	
Hurricane warnings extended from ,   to  .	
In advance of the storm, radio broadcasts also advised shipping interests to remain cautious north of  .	
No damages occurred along the coast because of the recurving storm.	
Peak wind gusts reached  mph ( km/h) at ,  , and  people drowned along the coast.	
Damage was minimal, though   was flooded during the storm.	
The White Star passenger liner  was battered by the storm on   while the ship was off the Nantucket Shoals.	
The ship arrived in      with  injured after having what was reported as a "100-foot wave" crash over  liner.	

Late on  , a minimal tropical storm formed in the western   east-northeast of northern .	
At the time, it was  detected when atmospheric pressures decreased over the   on  .	
It moved slowly west-northwest, and it gradually turned north on  .	
Late on  , it steadily intensified, and it attained hurricane intensity on  .	
On  , it strengthened to the equivalent of a major hurricane, and it struck the Pinar del Río Province of  with sustained winds of at least  mph (5 km/h).	
A ship reported a minimum central pressure of  mbar ( inHg) near  , suggesting that the cyclone may have been stronger.	
On  , the hurricane turned east-northeast in response to the southward movement of a ridge, and it quickly weakened.	
Early on  , it struck   near ,  as a Category  hurricane, and it entered the   north of  with  mph (0 km/h) winds.	
The cyclone steadily weakened as it moved across the western  , and it dissipated west-southwest of  on  .	
Following reanalysis released in  , the storm was re-classified as a Category  with winds of 16 mph ( km/h) and a minimum pressure of  mbar (hPa).	
This makes   the earliest Category  recorded in the   and ties it with   for the  most intense storm ever recorded in the .	

  prior to striking , the outer circulation began producing rainfall across the state.	
Storm warnings were issued along the east and west coastlines northward to Cedar Key and .	
Later, hurricane warnings were issued for much of the same area, and schools in the  area were closed as the storm was expected to move ashore.	
The hurricane  affected  when it passed west of  , where sustained winds of  mph ( km/h), along with gusts to  mph ( km/h), were reported.	
Little damage occurred in the region, limited to downed trees; this was due to advanced warning by the   , which advised ships to remain at port and for residents to secure property.	
Later, the hurricane moved ashore in a sparsely populated region of southwestern .	
Damage was reported in   and   and communications were temporarily cut, although no deaths were reported.	
Heavy rainfall was reported along its path, and  location accumulated  inches ( mm) in a   period; this established a new -day rainfall record in the state.	
A station in  recorded  inches ( mm), and wind gusts in the area approached hurricane force.	
The combination of winds and rain damaged 5% of the local citrus and avocado crop.	
The rainfall flooded streets, homes, and commercial buildings in the  area, and hundreds of people were left without telephone access.	
No impact was reported in the .	

After exiting  into the   , the hurricane weakened greatly.	
On   it passed a short distance west of  , , and very early on   the hurricane moved over   with winds of  mph ( km/h).	
The cyclone weakened further as it turned eastward through the state, deteriorating to tropical storm status as it passed near or over .	
It accelerated east-northeastward, moving over the   in  .	
Gradually weakening, the storm interacted with an approaching cold front; late on   it transitioned into an extratropical cyclone, and shortly thereafter it was absorbed by the front.	

During its passage through , the storm produced torrential rain over coastal cities, peaking in  at .	
The storm caused significant property and crop damage along the    .	
Trees, power lines, and telegraph wires were knocked down by high winds along the  .	
Communication throughout southern  was severed as miles of telegraph wires were downed during the evening of  .	
Structures  considered safe from storms due to their location over  ft ( m) inland sustained significant damage, probably from storm surge.	
Beaches along the  coast also sustained considerable damages from the storm.	
 people were killed near  in  separate incidents .	
The  occurred when a house collapsed on  men, pinning them to the ground.	
The  incident occurred after a woman ran outside her home and was struck by a tree limb.	
At least  workmen were killed and  others injured after the bunkhouse they were sleeping in collapsed due to high winds.	
The facility in which they were working in also sustained $200,000 in damage from a fire ignited by the cyclone.	
Throughout , property loses were estimated at $3 million, with $1 million in  alone.	
Damages to the citrus industry  were also significant, with total losses exceeding $600,000.	
Losses in  amounted to $250,000 as up to  inundated the city for    .	

The "  tornado" was a strong tornado that struck    on   .	
It remains the deadliest tornado to affect the south  , and it is estimated to have been the most intense tornado to strike the  area.	
The tornado caused  deaths and produced damage totals that were estimated near $200– ( USD).	
 people were also hospitalized because of injuries.	
The tornado remains the only tornado to cause multiple fatalities in  .	
It is estimated that the tornado may have produced "F3" damage based on photographs taken after the passage of the thunderstorm.	

The exact path and strength of the tornado is uncertain, since it occurred prior to modern records which began in .	
The  tornadoes to directly receive damage ratings on the  scale occurred in .	
The  tornado was  reported in its formative stage over the  near , where several golfers noted a funnel cloud around 1:00 p.m. Hail was reported with the parent thunderstorm prior to the sighting of the funnel cloud.	
The slow movement of the storm was accompanied by a large amount of people outside during the  afternoon, which led to a considerable amount of reports; several reports originated from passing motorists.	
The vortex touched down around 1:15 p.m., and the tornado was described as a "very slender" funnel that frequently lifted from the ground for brief periods.	
The debris swirling around the rotation was compared to smoke from "burning oil."	
Later, the slow moving tornado passed over a dairy farm, killing  person and injuring  people.	
Losses from the farm reached $100,000.	
The tornado eventually intensified and destroyed numerous properties northwest and north of the city of , causing at least  deaths.	
Some residents successfully attempted to flee in automobiles, though the cars were wrecked and some were thrown for distances.	
The tornado became rain wrapped, weakened, and dissipated over the northern portion of  , though it destroyed some power poles along the eastern half of its damage path.	
Hail associated with the storm was measured to  inches ( cm) in diameter, damaging automobiles and residences' roofs.	
The damage path was less than  yards ( miles) in width, and the funnel was visible for   .	
The thunderstorm also affected the communities of Ojus,  ,  , and  .	
In total, the tornado demolished nearly  residences.	

In , impacts were apparently minimal.	
The cyclone produced sustained winds up to  and pressures as low as  in the .	
In  , the cyclone apparently did not produce tropical storm-force winds, although thunderstorms produced  of rainfall at , , on  .	
No severe effects occurred and the storm was not mentioned in the monthly notations of the local  Weather Bureau office in .	
However, its presence and that of the   hurricane, then of Category  intensity and in the  , caused confusion in the local press.	
On the morning   ,   before the  hurricane struck, the " " published a front-page story on the weak tropical storm in the    and included statements by the editors that it was not anticipated to strike ;  news articles on the hurricane, which was expected to deliver “destructive winds” to the area, were not published by other local newspapers until the afternoon, leaving  residents confused as to the extent  the danger.	

Early on  , as Hurricanes  and  remained active in the  , a weak tropical depression formed in the western   about  east-southeast of the  , .	
Without strengning substantially,  depression moved west-northwest for    and a half, passing north of    based upon wear reports, and n curved northward.	
On  , the depression gradually curved to the northeast, and on the afternoon of   its center made landfall southeast of the city of , .	
The cyclone then crossed the central region of , entering the  islands in the evening.	
Shortly thereafter, by   on   the depression intensified into a weak tropical storm with maximum sustained winds of , the strongest in its entire life span.	
The cyclone then turned north, passing about  west of the  capital  in the afternoon.	
The weak storm n turned abruptly to  northwest, having been trapped by a building ridge, and    , while centered north of  , it assumed a gradual curve to  southwest.	
Late that , it degenerated back into a tropical depression and dissipated over the Straits of  on  , as the   hurricane approached from just  to the east-southeast.	

By   on  —just   after the formation of the preceding cyclone—a new tropical storm formed in the  about  east of the island of , though it probably originated earlier and was undetected; operationally, the storm was not tracked until  .	
Steadily moving north of due west,  cyclone quickly became a hurricane   , and over    s, while bypassing  Greater Antilles to  north, it continued to intensify to a major hurricane, with maximum sustained winds of at least , yet few ships were near  eye with which to determine its path.	
On  afternoon of  ,  cyclone peaked at , near  upper threshold of  modern- classification Category , and shortly reafter passed just  north of  island of  , striking  at peak intensity    .	
Continuing over the   and   on  –, the cyclone, with winds of , then struck   near ,  south of  , shortly before   on  , with its large eye passing over the  metropolitan area.	
Swiftly crossing southernmost , the potent hurricane weakened slightly before entering the    near   in the afternoon, and its path gradually curved northwest on  .	
Late on  , its path slowed drastically and curved west, making landfall near  , , with winds of  and a measured pressure of  in the calm eye.	
Quickly weakening thereafter, the cyclone paralleled the coasts of  and , dissipating      over .	

Throughout the , reports of damage were relatively scarce despite the intensity with which the storm struck the region.	
However, numerous structures were completely destroyed.	
Within  of the hurricane striking , newspapers reported death tolls as high as , fearing catastrophic damage in the city.	
This number gradually decreased as persons initially feared dead were found alive.	
According to estimates in   ,  storm was responsible for  deaths in  Souastern  ,  of which took place in  and at least  at  , where a storm surge estimated as high as  overtopped portions of a levee on  .	
Prior to , the  death toll was long listed as .	
Many people in , transients who knew little of hurricanes, perished after examining damage during the passage of the eye, unaware that the back end of the storm was approaching.	
Flimsy structures built to house workers during   land boom of   were completely leveled.	
The hurricane partially contributed to the end of the land boom, which was in decline by  .	
In terms of monetary losses, damage from the hurricane was estimated to be as high as $125 million ($  US$).	
Up to  structures throughout southern  were destroyed and  damaged, leaving at least  people homeless.	
A storm surge of  occurred south of  and winds on   were recorded at  before the anemometer blew away.	
The lowest pressure was estimated at , the  most intense in a storm to strike the  .	
The storm also produced significant damage, rainfall up to , and a storm surge up to  in the  .	
The entire state of  lost 35% of its grapefruit and orange crops combined, including nearly 100% losses in the  area.	
In a study of hurricane damage statistics conducted in , it was estimated that if a storm similar to that of the  hurricane were to occur in  it would result in over $140–  in damage.	
In all, the storm caused at least  deaths along its path accounting for the revised toll in the  since .	

  after the   hurricane struck , the  tropical storm of the season formed in the east-central  about  southwest of  in the  on  .	
Over    , it moved north of due east and rapidly strengned, becoming a minimal hurricane by   on   and later peaking at —equivalent to a moderately strong Category  hurricane on  Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale—on  morning of  4.	
For    thereafter, the cyclone briefly curved to the northeast before turning sharply to the east early on  .	
Late that , the cyclone swerved precipitously to the north, making landfall on the island of   near   at peak intensity, becoming only the  of  confirmed hurricanes to strike the  since records began in , the other being Hurricane Hannah in , another landfalling Category  hurricane that struck the same island.	
Curving northwest and then south of due west, the cyclone weakened after striking   and reverted to a minimal hurricane late on  .	
It gradually completed a counter-clockwise loop through the western , curving due south as a tropical storm, though its cool surface temperatures and enlarged size suggest it might have been a subtropical cyclone then.	
Just afterward, late on  , it hit   near  with sustained winds near .	
Over    , it moved generally south-souast and slowly weakened, curving suddenly east-souast beginning on  .	
Turning south of due east, it dissipated by   on  .	

The   hurricane formed on  .	
Moving west-northwest while traversing the tropical , the storm later passed near   on  .	
By   it was battering the , impacting the  and   with winds estimated at .	
Then, in       , it made landfall just south   between   and   as a devastating Category  hurricane on  Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.	
The storm crossed the peninsula south   , entered the   , and made another landfall near Mobile,  as a Category  hurricane on    hooking westward along coastal  and , eventually dissipating on   after moving inland over .	

In , winds on the ground were reported around  and the pressure measured at  — though all such data is suspect.	
Most of the costl inhbitnts hd not evcuted, prtly becuse of short wrning ( hurricne wrning ws issued just    before lndfll) nd prtly becuse the "young" city's popultion knew little bout the dnger  mjor hurricne posed.	
A  storm surge inundated the area, causing massive property damage and some fatalities.	
As the eye of the hurricane crossed over   and downtown , many people believed the storm had passed.	
Some tried to leave the barrier islands, only to be swept off the bridges by the rear eyewall.	
"The lull lasted  , and during that time the streets of the city became crowded with people," wrote  , the local weather chief.	
"As a result, many lives were lost during the  phase of the storm."	

Coastal regions between Mobile and ,  also suffered heavy damage from wind, rain, and storm surge, but this paled beside the news of the destruction in .	
According to the   there were  fatalities.	
Other estimates vary, since there were a large number of people listed as "missing".	
Between  and  people were left homeless, mostly in the  area.	

The damage from the storm was immense; few buildings in  or   were left intact.	
The toll for the storm was $100 million ($  USD).	
It is estimated that if an identical storm hit in   , with modern development and prices,  storm would have caused $140–  in damage.	
After the hurricane, the Great Depression started in  , slowing recovery.	

The University of , located in  , had been founded in  and opened its doors for the  time just  after the hurricane passed.	
The University's athletic teams were nicknamed the Hurricanes in memory of this catastrophe.	
The school's mascot is , an ibis.	
The ibis is a small white bird that can be seen around south  and especially on the UM campus.	
An ibis was selected to represent the Hurricanes because of folklore in which it is typically the last bird to leave before a hurricane strikes and the  to return  it's gone.	

The "  hurricane" (or "Great  Hurricane") was a Category  hurricane that devastated  in  .	
The storm also caused significant damage in the  , the  state of , and the .	
The storm's enormous regional economic impact helped end   land boom of   and pushed  region on an early start into  Great Depression.	

Points further south along the  coast, such as , received only a brush from the storm, resulting in rains and some light wind damage.	
Flooding was also experienced at points such as  .	
Damage estimates in  exceeded $2.5 million.	

In the aftermath of the hurricane in coastal , it became apparent that well-constructed buildings with shutters had suffered practically no damage from winds that caused serious structural problems to lesser buildings.	
Buildings with well-constructed frames, and those made of steel, concrete, brick, or stone were largely immune to winds, and the use of shutters prevented damage to windows and the interior of the buildings.	
Coming on the heels of the   hurricane where a similar pattern had been noticed,  lasting result of the  storm was improved building codes.	

Thousands of people were left homeless in ; property damage was estimated at $25 million ($).	
It is estimated if a similar storm were to strike as of   , it would cause $18.7 billion in damages.	
The cycl remains  of   hurricanes to strike the southern mainland of  with a central pressure below  mbar ( inHg), the others being the   hurricane and   of .	

Coastal damage in  near the point of landfall was catastrophic.	
, well south of the point of landfall, escaped with very little damage;  and   suffered only slight damages.	
In  , numerous power lines and telephone wires were downed.	
Northward, from   to , buildings suffered serious damage from the heavy winds and  ft ( m) storm surge, which was heaviest in the vicinity of  ; total coastal damages were estimated as "several " dollars.	
In   , more than  homes were destroyed, while the   's mortar was reportedly "squeezed ...like toothpaste" between the bricks during the storm, swaying the tower  off the base.	
Because of well-issued hurricane warnings, residents were prepared for the storm, and the number of lives lost in the coastal   area was only .	
Inland, the hurricane wreaked much more widespread destruction along the more heavily populated coast of  .	
Residents had been warned to evacuate  low ground earlier in  , but after  hurricane did not arrive on schedule, many thought it had missed and returned to ir homes.	
When the worst of the storm crossed the lake—with winds measured on the ground at around  mph ( km/h)—the south-blowing wind caused a storm surge to overflow the small dike that had been built at the south end of the lake.	
The resulting flood covered an area of hundreds of square miles with water that in some places was over  ft ( m) deep.	
Houses were floated off of their foundations and dashed to pieces against any obstacle they encountered.	
Most survivors and bodies were washed out into the  where many of the bodies were never found.	
As the rear eyewall passed over the area, the flood reversed itself, breaking the dikes along the northern coast of the lake and causing a similar but smaller flood.	
Floodwaters persisted for  , greatly impeding attempts to clean up the devastation.	
Burial services were quickly overwhelmed, and many of the bodies were placed into mass graves.	
Around 75% of the fatalities were migrant farm workers, making identification of both dead and missing bodies very difficult; as a result of this, the count of the dead is not very accurate.	
The   estimated the number of fatalities as , which was taken as the official count by the    for many  (and exactly equal to the official count for Hurricane Katrina).	
Older sources usually list  as the hurricane's total count of fatalities, including the .	
However, in  the  death count was revised as "at least" , making the  hurricane the second-deadliest natural disaster in   history behind the  Hurricane of .	
A mass grave at the    east of   contains the bodies of  victims of the hurricane.	

In , a reading of  mbar ( inHg) reading was recorded as the hurricane made lfall,  wind speeds between    mph ( to  km/h) were recorded in  .	
The hurricane spawned  tornadoes that touched down in  , , and  other towns, with the   tornado being most destructive.	
The tornado damaged a  story hotel, a railway office building and several cottages before dissipating   after its formation.	
In southwestern , there was damage to orange and grapefruit crops.	
 people were killed after ignoring warnings and trying to ride out the storm.	

While moving over Saint , the storm killed  people.	
Heavy rain was reported throughout the  .	
The hurricane caused the drowning of  person in the , and moderate winds produced severe structural damage to the buildings in the archipelago.	
In , the    issued storm warnings between  to , while Governor   issued a mandatory evacuation for  residents in vulnerable areas around  .	
Damage in  was minimal, limited to minor crops, roofs, and signs.	
In southern , the hurricane produced moderate damage of $500,000 ( USD, $  USD), including disrupted telephone and telegraph lines.	
The hurricane produced high tides along the coast of , covering parts of   , and heavy rains in northern  caused heavy damage.	

In , people boarded up numerous buildings, and emergency workers assisted authorities in spreading the word about the impending storm; residents in vulnerable areas evacuated to shelters on higher ground.	
The hurricane's powerful winds destroyed several houses in , and heavy rainfall overflowed numerous rivers in low-lying districts.	
The winds damaged and disrupted telephone and telegraph lines and injured a few people in .	
Despite government orders for police to kill any looters, large-scale looting occurred in  after the storm.	
 looters were shot to death, and a  was injured.	
 civilians were also wounded by snipers who fired to disperse thieves.	
Residents in southeast  boarded up for the storm while the    issued storm warnings for portions of the coastline.	
The hurricane produced strong winds and rain in the   and extreme southern , but damage was minimal.	
In northwest , the hurricane spawned a tornado that damaged  houses and injured .	
Damage in the  is unknown.	

On  , a tropical storm developed off the northeast coast of .	
It moved slowly northward and steadily intensified, becoming a hurricane on   just west of .	
The hurricane turned to the north-northwest and hit the  province of La Habana with winds of  mph ( km/h) on  .	
The hurricane passed over  and turned to the northeast and strengthened, becoming a major hurricane as it moved south of , .	
The hurricane reached a peak intensity of  mph ( km/h) while passing through the  on  .	
The hurricane weakened as it accelerated to the northeast, and it became extratropical on   to the south of  .	
It paralleled the   coast, turned to the east-southeast, and lost its tropical characteristics on   over the open north  .	

On  , the  tropical cyclone watches and warnings for  were released around 4 p.m. ( UTC); storm warnings were issued in , while hurricane warnings encompassed the coast from north of  to .	
Additionally, storm warnings extended from north of  to .	
Storm warnings, which were issued around 10 p.m. ( UTC), were also disseminated from Key West to Cedar Key.	

The threat of the storm prompted the     to issue southeast storm warnings for Key West, .	
Light rainfall from the storm was reported in .	
Before the storm made its final landfall, the   issued northeast storm warnings from  to  ,  on  .	
That same , a hurricane warning was also issued for .	
The hurricane ultimately struck a sparsely-populated area of northeastern , causing several deaths and heavy damage in the country.	
High winds downed trees and power lines, and damaged the roofs of several houses.	
Along the beach, high tides damaged coastal structures and flooded some cars.	
The effects extended into , and  ,  , and   were flooded due to the storm surge.	
High tides damaged  piers in  , and there was damage to buildings along the coast.	
The storm damaged the cotton and fruit crops in south  from high winds and rainfall.	
Rains from the storm ended an extended drought in the  area.	

A rare   hurricane strike in the  area, this storm began as a tropical storm near  on  .	
Moving westward, the storm strengthened to a  Category  hurricane on   while initially threatening the   coastline.	
The system began to turn southwest on  , however, while continuing to strengthen to its peak of , while a ship recorded a minimal pressure of  mbar.	
The hurricane continued moving slowly south-southwest while weakening slightly, eventually making landfall near  , , as a  minimal hurricane on   with a measured pressure of  mbar at landfall.	
The system crossed the southern end  the  peninsula shortly thereafter, eventually entering the     as a minimal hurricane near the Dry Tortugas on  .	
The hurricane then weakened into a tropical storm while beginning a slow clockwise loop in the eastern Gulf, eventually curving back east while weakening to a depression just west of   late on  .	
The system dissipated just offshore on  .	
It had killed  people and caused upwards of $5.5 million in uninflated damage.	
The hurricane's unusual approach toward  and late arrival earned it the nickname of the Yankee Hurricane.	

The "  hurricane season" ran from      .	
The  season featured below average activity, but it was eventful.	
A Category  hurricane in the  killed an estimated 2,50 people in the Greater Antilles and  .	
A Category  storm hit central  and grazed .	
An extratropical hurricane hit .	
The  tropical cyclone of the season struck the   in southern  as a Category  hurricane; it remains the strongest landfalling hurricane in the   (and anywhere in the  basin).	
A rare  hurricane also affected the —  area.	

The "   Hurricane" was the strongest tropical cycl of the   hurricane season, and  of the most intense hurricanes to make landfall in the   in recorded history.	
The  tropical cyclone,  hurricane, and  major hurricane of  season,    Hurricane was   of  Category  hurricanes at landfall that    endured during    ( or  being 's Hurricane Camille and 's Hurricane Andrew).	
After forming as a weak tropical storm east of the  on  , it slowly proceeded westward and became a hurricane on  .	
   approached, hurricane warnings went up over the Keys.	
A train was dispatched from  to evacuate the    (WPA) construction workers, consisting almost entirely of Bonus Army veterans and their families, from the ramshackle camps they were living in Windley Key and Lower Matecumbe Key.	
The train was almost entirely swept away before reaching the camps late on  .	
When it finally arrived in Upper Metecumbe Key only the engine survived the winds and wall of water that swept through the area.	
The hurricane struck the      Mday  .	
The storm continued north along the   , weakening before its  landfall near  ,  on  .	
(If information is found on diameter please write.)	

The     and other state and federal agencies organized evacuation and relief efforts.	
Boats and airplanes carried injured survivors to .	
The railroad was never rebuilt, but temporary bridges and ferry landings were under construction as soon as materials arrived.	
Within   yers  rodwy (Overses Highwy) linked the Keys to the minlnd.	
The storm caused wind and flood damage along the  panhandle and into .	

The main transportation route linking the Keys to mainland  was  railroad line, the  Overseas Railroad portion of the    .	
A 10-car evacuation train, sent from Homestead, was washed off the track by the storm surge and high winds on Upper Matecumbe Key.	
Only the locomotive remained on the rails, and was barged back to    .	
The    estimated  deaths from the hurricane.	
Bodies were recovered as far away as  and   on the southwest tip of the  mainland.	

The "Yankee Hurricane of " was a rare Category  hurricane that affected the  and   in .	
It remains the only tropical cyclone to affect  from the northeast in .	
The  tropical cyclone and  hurricane of the   hurricane season, it developed  miles ( km) east of .	
It strengthened to a hurricane on  , initially posing a threat to the .	
Subsequently, the cyclone turned southwest.	
It attained its peak intensity on  , and it made landfall near   on  .	
The hurricane's unusual approach toward  and late arrival earned it the nickname of the Yankee Hurricane.	

The cyclone produced winds of  mph ( km/h) on  .	
The duration of hurricane force winds ranged from –  in the  , and  sponge fishing vessels were lost due to the hurricane.	
The cyclone caused  deaths in the islands.	
In  , winds unroofed several homes, and canals overflowed.	
In  , the hurricane dismantled communication lines, and "telegraph companies relayed" messages via  and .	
High waves flooded  .	
 feet ( m) of the   causeway was eroded, and police halted traffic between   and the mainland.	
The death toll in  was low because of well executed warnings and advisories.	
Winds shattered numerous plate glass windows in 's business district, while signs, roofing materials, and vegetation littered streets.	
 homes lost their roofs in  and , and the oceanfront boardwalk was destroyed.	
Precipitation damaged equipment at the   , where many windows were broken.	
Construction standards were improved in the aftermath of the  Okeechobee Hurricane, reducing damages in subsequent storms.	
 people were treated for injuries at local hospitals.	
  was flooded by  feet ( mm) of water.	
The hurricane produced light rainfall in  that peaked at  inches ( mm).	
 deaths were reported in .	
Total damages in  reached $5,500,000 in the –  area.	

Initially, the cyclone moved westward.	
On  , the storm strengthened to a Category  hurricane, and it attained peak winds of  mph (30 km/h).	
The tropical cyclone temporarily threatened the .	
On  , the hurricane reached its closest approach to  ; the center was located less than  miles (30 km/h) off the coast.	
The cyclone's wind field remained narrow, and  recorded peak gusts of  mph ( km/h).	
The cyclone turned south, under the influence of northerly winds from a high pressure system.	
On  , a ship reported a minimum pressure of  mbar ( inHg) north of the  .	
However, this value remains unofficial, pending reanalysis.	
On  , the hurricane, with maximum sustained winds of  mph ( km/h), made landfall north of   near the  location of  , .	
The hurricane's lowest central pressure in  was recorded at  mbar ( inHg) in , .	

Shops and residences were "boarded up" in .	
Precautionary hurricane signals were hoisted along the  east coast from  to , and the center was expected to make landfall between  and   .	
Later, hurricane warnings were issued from   to .	
 men were evacuated from the   area in the upper  .	
Workers in the   were transported to concentration points in  and Homestead.	
Maritime interests in the    were also warned, though the cyclone's remnants remained f the west coast  .	

On  , a tropical storm made landfall on the  coast of .	
It moved northeastward across  , and entered the western   on  .	
The storm quickly re-organized, and again developed into a tropical storm on  .	
It moved north-northeastward, resulting in light winds as it paralleled the eastern coasts of  and the  .	
After reaching the    with peak winds  , the storm turned to the northeast, then to the east.	
On  , the tropical storm made landfall about  to the south of  , , and after crossing the state it passed over  before entering the  .	
It weakened as it accelerated northeastward through the , and on   the system dissipated to the north of .	

While crossing  , the storm produced heavy rainfall.	
In southern , winds from the storm ranged from  to a peak of  in .	
The srm produced heavy rainfall in southern , ranging from    inches (  30 mm).	
The rainfall caused flooding of highways and lowlands, drowned several livestock, and some damage.	
The storm caused  indirect deaths when a   airplane crashed in   while in search of small boats.	

No deaths were reported in the region, although minor damage was inflicted on communication lines and homes and several injuries were reported.	
Several communities lost electricity.	
Some hospitals were left without power, forcing the delivery of  babies by candlelight.	
The storm injured  people in the  area, including  firefighters who were injured "as they fought a blaze fanned by the high winds" of the hurricane.	
As the hurricane tracked inland, it passed over the , producing winds of .	
Storm surge in the region triggered foot-deep flooding of some streets in local towns.	
Docks and fishing equipment suffered extensive damage in the region.	
As the hurricane passed offshore, winds reached  near  .	
The storm also grounded a fishing schooner from  off the coast of  , .	
Although no  was injured, members of the schor crew were detained by immigration authorities.	

On making landfall, the storm generated high winds at the Fowey Rocks Light, although they were below hurricane force.	
A peak wind gust of  was reported at Dinner Key with sustained winds up to .	
Unusually little rain fell in association with the storm;  of precipitation was reported in , while locations closer to the center of the cyclone received less than .	
The light rainfall was evident throughout southeastern , except for the  , where thunderstorms enhanced the precipitation.	
This aspect of the storm was considered highly unusual, as most tropical cyclones are characterized by heavy rainfall.	
According to  study, the unusual precipitation patterns can be attributed to  of  possible conditions: "the air might have been too dry", or "the horizontal convergence of air might have been insufficient to produce a large enough transport of moisture upwards".	
The intense winds blew salt water several miles inland; due to the lack of rainfall, the salt burned vegetation throughout the region.	
The high winds brought down trees and utility poles and shattered some windows in  .	

Local chapters of the    organized first-aid stations and shelters; transportation was provided to those who were unable to reach the shelters.	
In advance of the storm,     suspended flights departing from and arriving at  and redirected them to , .	
The    also prepared its bases in the   for the arrival of the storm by securing boats to piers and canceling all shore leaves, while the      moved its planes from   to a safer location inland.	
The state of  stockpiled food for those affected by the storm, establishing depots in   , , and  , and the Governor of ,  , ordered state agencies to prepare for relief work.	
A detachment of officers from the    was sent to  and patrolled along highways to provide gasoline to motorists evacuating the storm.	
The state also opened all of the school buildings in   as emergency shelters.	

During   before  storm's arrival in ,  Wear  issued  tropical cyclone-related advisories.	
Extensive preparations that resulted in a low loss of life and property were attributed to the warnings.	
In southern , residents boarded up homes and businesses, and sought shelter in large structures.	
Hurricane parties took place in bars and hotel rooms, while some residents sat in hotel lobbies, listening to radio broadcasts.	
In , stores sold out of various essentials—including bread and butter—as people prepared for the storm.	
Evacuations were recommended from Homestead to  , and    planes dropped warnings to boats near the  coast.	
The    also evacuated  of its workers from West Summerland Key to Key West.	

On  , the  indications of a tropical system were observed  to the north of the  .	
    observations confirmed the presence of a circulation center and on   the storm tracked through the  and passed near .	
At the time, the storm was found to be a compact, well-developed hurricane.	
The hurricane's lowest recorded barometric pressure of  mb was reported on Cat Island.	
The storm moved west-northwestward and attained peak winds of  on  ; that same , it made landfall  south of , .	
Maintaining a small size, the hurricane moved through the , passing between   and  .	
Along the southern shore of  , winds gusted to ; barometric pressure there fell to  mb.	

 warnings and advisories were issued by     during    period when  storm impacted  western  islands and  .	
In , watches and warnings were broadcast via microphones at  to  intervals when the hurricane threatened the state.	
The   reported  people were sheltered during the storm, which accounted for a small portion of those whom evacuated.	
 small vessels were secured in  , while operational  and  planes were transferred from  to safer airfields.	
In , communications were severed on the Isles of , though  received ample warnings and was well prepared for the storm.	

A hurricane was  detected on  , northeast of the Lesser Antilles.	
It likely developed from a tropical wave   before.	
It moved west-northwestward, and steadily intensified to a  major hurricane on the , northeast of the .	
Around this time, the     designated this storm "The Great Atlantic " to emphasize its intensity and size, which appears to be the  time a name was designated by the office which evolved into the National  Center.	
The hurricane turned northward and hit the   later that .	

Although hurricane warnings were initially issued for the   and  through  , the cyclone passed north of the Lesser Antilles.	
In advance of the storm, aircraft were evacuated from the    in , .	
In total, hundreds of planes left vulnerable locations.	
Residents were advised to heed advisories in , the , and northern .	
On  , hurricane force winds were expected to affect areas from  ,  through the  , and hurricane warnings were accordingly released for this region.	
Storm warnings also extended north to  and .	
Military personnel sought shelter at  Race Track, while residents boarded homes and evacuated from coastal areas to public structures.	
Boats were utilized to transport people from barrier islands, and small watercraft were secured along the  .	

In south , peak gusts were estimated near  mph ( km/h) at the    in Homestead.	
The strong winds destroyed  residences across the state, while  homes received damages.	
The hurricane was the strongest tropical cyclone to strike   until Hurricane  in .	
In , gusts reached  mph ( km/h), and damages were minimal compared to communities in southern  .	
 people were injured at the Army Air Base when a fire ignited during the storm, affecting  hangars and destroying  blimps,  planes, and  automobiles.	
An additional fire also destroyed a furniture factory and a tile manufacturing plant in the northwestern portion of downtown .	
More than    workers were activated in response to the cyclone.	
In the  , hundreds of residences were damaged.	
 people died across the state.	

Hurricane warnings were issued for coastal areas of , including the  Keys and Panhandle.	
Storm advisories were also posted along the state's  coast, and portions of the  .	
They were discontinued on  , although small craft warnings remained in place along the  .	
   canceled flights between  and , , and also to  and , .	
Small navy vessels were secured, while larger ships rode out the storm at sea.	
In the Key West neighborhood of  ,  residents evacuated their homes.	
Emergency shelters in the area were opened, and local business slowed considerably with the exception of a few grocery stores selling emergency supplies.	
Schools closed as windows were boarded up on houses and businesses.	
Throughout its course, the hurricane was heavily observed and investigated, resulting in an abundance of information that provided a more comprehensive understanding of a tropical cyclone's vertical structure.	
It was profiled in detail in a "Monthly Weather Review" article by   , titled "A Note on the Movement and Structure of the  Hurricane of  ".	

This storm was named  by the   office in , which worked in conjunction with the military at that time.	
This powerful hurricane hit near  , , on  .	
It moved across the    as a weakened hurricane, but restrengthened before striking eastern  on   as a Category  hurricane.	
The hurricane caused $110 million in damage ( dollars) and  casualties.	
Although it was very powerful at its  landfall, its destruction was less severe than that of previous tropical cyclones in  .	

An airport in south  recorded peak winds of  mph ( km/h).	
The hurricane dropped  (– cm) inches of rain across central and southern part of the state, including in  where the storm produced  inches ( cm) in a   period and over  inches ( cm) in a   period.	
The flooding rains left many neighborhoods in up to  feet of water due to a  wet , and left over    residents homeless.	
The flooding also closed   from  to  , as well as a highway to  .	
The hurricane spawned a tornado in both Coral Gables and ,  of which destroyed  warehouses.	
In all, the hurricane caused $27.5 million dollars ( USD, $260 million 2005 USD) in damage in .	
Following the passage of the hurricane,  mayor   declared a state of emergency and restricted access to the city.	
In , many residents had to use boats and rafts to survey damage and look for survivors, due to the flooding.	
Winds in  peaked at  mph ( km/h) in , where the storm caused $20 million dollars ( USD, $189 million 2005 USD) in damage.	
Elsewhere in , the storm caused $500,000 ( USD, $4.7 million 2005 USD) in damage, mainly due to a tornado that touched down near .	
Tides  feet above normal were reported from  to  .	
In ,  , the high tides caused minor beach erosion and isolated street flooding, and  person was killed there by a falling tree.	
In  , the high tides caused minor flooding.	

In   , the origins of Hurricane  were detected north of  in the Intertropical Convergence Zone.	
On   at  UTC, a minimal tropical storm was estimated to have formed with maximum sustained winds near ; thereafter it moved north by west.	
By  , the storm accelerated and began strengthening steadily, reaching a peak intensity of  before striking land just before  UTC on   south of    in    , .	
The center of the storm then began turning to the northeast before passing near  , which recorded wind gusts of up to .	
  after leaving northern , the storm rapidly became a hurricane, equivalent to Category  on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.	
Just after   on  , the hurricane struck  just north of  , and just before   it left the  metropolitan area near  —the same area that had been hit by the    hurricane   previous—with winds of .	
Unusually, the hurricane strengthened over land as it passed over  , a phenomenon also observed in Tropical Storm Fay (), which struck the same region.	

By  , the    issued hurricane warnings from the  metropolitan area to  .	

Upon striking southernmost , the cyclone produced insignificant wind damage of $75,000 ( USD), largely due to its having struck an area hit by the more powerful    hurricane in .	
Peak winds in  were estimated to have reached  around  , the area where the storm made landfall,  though these were not officially accepted as the maximum sustained winds.	
At the  , wind instruments reported readings up to  before failing due to “friction from lack of oil”; higher winds were believed to have occurred thereafter.	
Elsewhere in  , the      at   port reported sustained winds of ,  while the    in downtown  recorded peak winds of .	
Between the  stations, each  apart, the difference in atmospheric pressure was  mb ( inHg), but the lowest pressure was not below 995. mb (29.9 inHg).	
As the storm center passed just north of  , the city at   on   reported a pressure of  mb ( inHg) that was “still falling” at the time.	
The eye of the storm by   pssed over the   , which reported clm winds for  —the  time in  th   in which the eye of  hurrice pssed over or ner the lighthouse, the other hving occurred on  .	

Region-wide, the hurricane produced significant rainfall totals of  to —and, in the interior, locally as high as —causing severe flooding.	
The highest measured rainfall total in   in   was  in northeastern  .	
At a weather observation site in ,  of rain fell in as little as  .	
In all, as much as  fell in just ¼  in the city; due to saturated ground preceding the arrival of the storm, much of the area flooded easily, leaving parts of the city submerged under  of water.	
Similarly, “waist deep” depths were reported in nearby  , , rural western sections of  , and many other cities of the  metropolitan area.	
In  , homes in the historic   district that housed    soldiers were flooded in up to  of water.	
In the wake of the flooding in his city,   Mayor   blocked access from surrounding cities.	
In the  area, the   and the   overflowed,  as did the    again in  , which had  done so during the  hurricane.	
During the storm, up to  of rain in   were reported to have fallen on the city of  , and sections of   were under  of water.	
On the  , floodwaters extended all the way across the state from the  area to as far west as   in  .	
Due to the floods, septic tanks overflowed, leaving canal banks and patches of ground isolated by floodwaters; reportedly,  Route , locally called Federal Highway and built largely upon the  coastal ridge—the highest elevation in  —was flooded out between  and  .	
Having been isolated by the floods, deer, rattlesnakes, and other wildlife, along with horses and cattle, sought shelter upon the remaining exposed ground, particularly levee banks.	

In  , the flooding from the  and  hurricanes led to the creation in  of what is  the     , which under a  plan was entrusted with the task of preventing a recurrence of significant flooding by forming an improved flood-control system to modulate the water table and by providing suitable water levels with which to water crops, prevent saltwater intrusion, and support recreational opportunities as well as the growing   communities.	
Large pumping systems were constructed, along with numerous new levees and canals, to mitigate  risk of large-scale flooding, yet population growth since    is believed to have reduced  extent of vacant lands needed for effective drainage, reby increasing  risk of damage during a flood similar to that of .	
In his  book "Beyond the  Generation," former EDD Chief Engineer   voiced his concerns about large-scale development near the levees, which separate the  water conservation areas from the  metropolitan area.	
 wrote, “It is my opinion...that anytime that area gets a foot or more of rainfall overnight, the shades of ’s flood will be with them again.”	

Following the phonetic alphabet from   , the    office in , , which then worked in conjunction with the military, named the storm "King," though such names were apparently informal and did not appear in public advisories until , when the   storm to be so designated was Hurricane Fox.	

Hurricane  was  monitored as an area of low pressure over    on   .	
Steadily tracking westward, the system was quickly classified as a depression before moving into the   near , , on  .	
Shortly thereafter, weather agencies lost track of the system over water due to a lack of ships in the region.	
However, later analysis determined that the cyclone obtained tropical storm status, with maximum sustained winds of  mph ( km/h), during the afternoon of  .	
The storm quickly intensified as it tracked nearly due west, attaining winds of  mph ( km/h), equivalent to a Category  hurricane on the – Hurricane Scale, roughly 8  after being classified a tropical storm.	
The hurricane maintained this intensity for   , taking a southwest turn on          , when  steamship "Arakaka" provided confirmation of its existence.	
Beginning then, the cyclone began to intensify more rapidly as its forward speed increased; between   and , reconnaissance missions by the    began monitoring the hurricane.	
At  UTC on  , a navy aircraft  penetrated the storm; in    , the storm strengthened, with another mission registering a barometric pressure of  mb ( inHg), a drop of  mb in  .	
On  , another airplane at  UTC confirmed that the storm had deepened further to  mb ( inHg) and its eye shrunk to ;  by that time the hurricane had reached Category  intensity.	
The same mission reported a double eyewall,  a feature replaced by a large eye by the time the storm hit the  and .	
  , the storm attained the minimum pressure,  mb ( inHg), recorded by aircraft reconnaissance during its life span, yet continued to intensify thereafter.	
Early on  , as its movement slowed greatly and turned westward near the northern , it attained its peak intensity of 0 mph ( km/h).	
Following the phonetic alphabet from   ,  the    office in , , which then worked in conjunction with the military, named the storm , though such names were apparently informal and did not appear in public advisories until , when the   storm to be so designated was Hurricane Fox.	

While retaining its intensity, the storm, its northwesterly course having been blocked by a ridge of high pressure, crossed the northern portion of the  , where on Elbow Cay the   weather station simultaneously estimated winds of  mph ( km/h) and recorded  mb ( inHg)  as the center passed just to the north.	
    on  , it made landfall near  , , as a strong Category  hurricane with maximum sustained winds near  mph ( km/h)—only  or hurricanes, all Category  ( 193   hurricane, , and ), are estimated to have had higher maximum sustained winds upon striking   .	
To this date, the hurricane remains the only major hurricane to have struck  , , at that strength, and the only  to pass directly over the county seat of  ,  though the   hurricane and Hurricane King caused significant damage in the county.	
  UTC, the cyclone produced peak gusts of  mph ( km/h) and sustained winds of  mph ( km/h) at    near  , ; the gust was the highest measured wind speed recorded in the state of  until , when   produced a gust of  at .	
The station also reported a pressure of  mb ( inHg), the lowest during the passage of the storm over , though its accuracy is uncertain as  , in the eye to the south, reported higher pressures, while winds at the lighthouse remained at hurricane force.	
The hurricane moved slowly inland near  mph ( km/h), and it diminished to a Category  hurricane over the .	
Early on  , the cyclone entered the    near , producing wind gusts   mph ( km/h) at   Light near  .	

On  , concerns about disastrous flooding were heightened by memories of the   hurricane on the south shore and of the   hurricane at  .	
During the storm, tides peaked at  on the north shore of the lake  and  on the south shore at  and  , nearly overrunning the    that surrounded the lake.	
However, due to revamped improvements in the dike, the storm caused only minor damage, and the dike prevented a repeat of the flooding of  and , in which over  people drowned.	
Nevertheless, floodwaters in the  region resulted in significant losses to cattle, and hundreds of small block homes in the agricultural districts were blown off their foundations.	
Much of the marshy country was waterlogged during and after the storm.	

On the east coast of , many cities experienced significant flooding; tides of up to  affected  and   counties, washing out large portions of State Highway A1A between   and  , as well as between    and .	
High tides carved a channel  deep and rendered a nearby road impassable while nearly reopening   , which had silted over and never re-emerged since the   hurricane.	
At   many of the  resort hotels as well as homes and apartments were battered by waves.	
There, a three-to-four-ft-deep (0.9-to-1-m) layer of sand covered many oceanfront grounds, and nearby neighborhoods on the  , like  , were flooded to a depth of several feet.	
As it crossed   at about , the storm dropped a prodigious amount of rain over a broad area, peaking at  at   .	
In , the city manager claimed  of city streets were flooded out, while in   half the homes were flooded.	
The town of , having lost  "citrus" trees to floodwaters in preceding ,  suffered devastating losses to groves and vegetable beds.	

On the evening of  , the    expected the storm to recurve, precipitating a possible landfall between  , , and , .	
As a precautionary measure, small watercraft between , , and  ,  , were advised to remain in port.	
Early on  , the forecast was revised, and hurricane warnings were issued for the  east coast from  to  , later to be expanded to .	
As the hurricane approached Northern commercial flights were grounded, and  National Guard troops were readied for mobilization if “deemed necessary” by  Governor  .	
 persons in   moved into shelters established by the  , while up to  people evacuated the flood-prone   region.	
In all, more than  people statewide moved into shelters established by the  .	
Military aircraft were flown to safer locations, in some cases   or more in advance.	
Hotels in the threatened area filled quickly due to fears of a disaster similar to the  Okeechobee hurricane; at  and Cocoa no vacant hotels were left for evacuees.	
During the storm, the ,   ( ), and Venetian Causeways in  were closed to traffic.	
At   alone,  people sheltered in  official shelters during the storm.	

, the site of the strongest winds, received significant damage from the cyclone, and  fatalities occurred on the island.	
In , the hurricane produced heavy rains and floods in the  region.	
 tornadoes also occurred in the state; however, no deaths were confirmed.	
The impacts of Hurricane , occurring   prior to the storm, reduced the destruction from the  cyclone.	
The cyclone also caused extensive destruction on .	

A weak tropical storm, with winds of  mph ( km/h), formed  miles ( km) east-northeast of   a Dios, , on  .	
The cyclone, moving northwest, strengned to a hurricane on   .	
The system was noted as an organized tropical cyclone at 10:45 a.m.
( UTC) on the same date.	
On  , the hurricane intensified and attained winds of at least  mph (19 km/h).	
Subsequently, the hurricane, reaching a peak intensity of  mph ( km/h), made landfall east of  in the    , .	
The center passed west of , where winds were measured near  mph ( km/h).	
Later, the hurricane made landfall near Marathon on the evening of the same date.	
Maximum sustained winds were near  mph ( km/h), and Sombrero Key reported a pressure of  mbar ( inHg).	
A lull, indicating the passage of the eye, persisted for   at Marathon and the   .	
Maximum winds were estimated near  mph ( km/h) in the  .	
The hurricane passed over  around 7 p.m. ( UTC); sustained winds of  mph ( km/h) were documented at the   's airport station, and the lowest pressure was  mbar ( inHg).	
The duration of the center was   at the station; the lull lasted for a longer period at the   , but the pressure did not drop below  mbar ( inHg).	

A total of  bulletins were released by the    office.	
In ,  deaths were attributed to the tropical cyclone.	
Homes and cattle were swept away by flash flooding.	
 injuries were reported, and damages reached $6,000,000 ( USD).	

The hurricane, reminiscent of Hurricane Floyd in , produced minimal damage in the  .	
In southern , the cyclone produced a storm surge of  feet ( m) on  .	
Rainfall exceeded  inches (
mm) at the  airport station, and  streets were flooded by deep water.	
Water resembled flooding streams in the streets of Homestead,  , , and sections of  .	
In , the city mayor reported water depths of  feet ( m) in the streets.	
The city had been plagued by floods in  .	
A  bridge, located near the  , was damaged by a loose barge during the hurricane.	
Planes were overturned and damaged by strong winds at the  .	
The hurricane produced  tornadoes prior to landfall.	
 tornado, touching down around 4 p.m., demolished  homes south of  .	
A total of  residences were damaged or destroyed.	
     tornado struck homes west of  .	
 building, containing  stories, lost its roof, while  homes incurred damage.	
Barns were damaged or destroyed.	
Losses reached $15,000 ( USD).	
Another tornado destroyed  homes in the city of , where damages reached $100,000 ( USD).	
The tornado flipped cars and inflicted extensive damage at the Royal Palm dairy farm.	
All of the tornadoes attained the equivalence of F2 intensity on the modern  scale.	
The hurricane caused no fatalities across the state, and the recent passage of Hurricane , which had resulted in pre-existing damage, mitigated the destruction from the  hurricane.	
Total losses in  reached $5,500,000; more than one-half of the costs were attributed to property damage.	
The lack of fatalities was unusual in a densely populated region.	

The "  hurricane" was  of the strongest tropical cycls of the   hurricane season.	
The hurricane, the  most intense storm of the season, produced winds of  mph ( km/h) in the ,  region.	
The  tropical storm,  hurricane, and the  major hurricane of the season, it developed east-northeast of   a Dios, .	
Subsequently, it intensified over the western  , attained winds of hurricane strength, and made landfall on western .	
The cyclone, which was the equivalence of a Category  hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale, crossed the island and struck the   as a major hurricane.	
The center passed over , departed near  , and crossed the   south of .	

In , the hurricane produced hurricane force gusts from   to Saint Augustine.	
The majority of the state experienced sustained winds of at least  mph ( km/h).	
The storm produced the most severe conditions over the   region since , and peak gusts were measured from  ( km/h) to  mph ( km/h) near the lake.	
The minimum central pressure near   was  mbar ( inHg) at Canal Point; pressures were below  mbar ( inHg) as far north as  , which is located in the   of the state.	

On  , the northern  were advised to initiate hurricane precautions, and a hurricane warning was issued for the islands.	
  were encouraged to closely monitor the progress of the storm.	
On  , hurricane warnings were released from  to  ; officials decided to cancel proposed evacuations of the   region, as the presence of the    was expected to prevent flooding.	

On the southeast coast of , unofficial wind gusts reached  mph ( km/h) at   and  mph ( km/h) at , respectively.	
  reported sustained winds of  mph ( km/h) and peak gusts of  mph ( km/h).	
Tides reached  feet ( in) above normal at   and , but the    remained intact, protecting the area from severe flooding.	
Minimal erosion occurred in some locales.	
 , Jupiter, and  experienced the most severe damage from the storm in south ; hundreds of homes, apartment buildings, stores, and warehouse buildings lost roofs and windows.	
Interior furnishings were blown through broken glass into the streets.	
Severe damage was received by 40 percent of 's residences and commercial structures, and 90 percent required repairs.	
A church, baseball park, and ice company was destroyed in the area's black neighborhoods.	
Many flimsy buildings were destroyed in the neighborhoods.	
In   , cars were overturned in the interior of a dealership as winds shattered windows.	
Sand and debris covered the island of  .	
Heavy rainfall resulted in flooding, and water entered many homes in   and  counties.	
Snakes and mosquitoes infested many residences.	
Precipitation totals of , , and  were measured at  , , and   , respectively.	
 received less damage, although trees and power lines were knocked down.	
Winds reached  mph ( km/h) in the city.	
Radio towers were toppled in   and  , and  portions of the Jensen causeway near 's Point were ripped away.	
A hangar and beacon was destroyed at the local airport in  .	
 people were homeless in .	
A water mark of  feet ( in) was recorded on the    near .	

After reaching the southwestern  , King turned northward and later northwestward, striking downtown ,  on   with winds of  mph ( km/h).	
It was the most severe hurricane to impact the city since the   hurricane.	
Across , damage totaled $27.75 million ( USD, $  USD), of which $15 million ( USD, $  USD) was in the  metropolitan area.	
A preliminary survey indicated there were  houses damaged in the region, with an additional  destroyed.	
Along its path through the state, strong winds were observed around  , with a  mph ( km/h) gust in .	
Overall, there were  deaths in the state.	
Early on  , King weakened to tropical storm status over north-central , and later that  it dissipated over western .	
There was  additional death in .	

The tropical cyclones of the season produced a total of  fatalities and $38.5 million in property damage ( USD, $  USD).	
The  officially named  hurricane was Hurricane Able, which formed on  , brushed the   coastline, and later moved across southeastern .	
The strongest hurricane of the season, Hurricane Dog reached the equivalent of a Category  hurricane on the  scale, and caused extensive damage to the  .	
 major hurricanes affected : Easy produced the largest  rainfall total recorded in the  , while King struck downtown  and caused $27.75 million ( USD, $  USD) of damage.	
The last storm of  , Hurricane Love, dissipated on   after striking    and causing minimal damage.	

On  , a tropical depression formed in the western     after the end of the hurricane season.	
It moved quickly north-northwestward and intensified into a tropical storm, followed by a northeast turn after brushing the  .	
Early on  , the storm struck  ,  and quickly crossed the state.	
The     office recorded a wind gust of  mph ( km/h) during its passage.	
The winds damaged windows and power lines, catching residents and tourists off-guard.	
The cyclone also dropped – inches (– mm) of precipitation along its path, causing crop damage in  .	

Residents and tourists in southern  were unprepared for the unusual off-season storm.	
Winds of up to  mph ( km/h) spread across the area, causing damage to windows and power lines.	
The storm dropped – inches (– mm) of precipitation along its path; the combination of unseasonable rainfall and winds resulted in crop damage in  .	
After the storm moved into the western , the     issued storm warnings for the   coastline from  to  ; the region was warned to prepare for strong winds.	
The agency also issued a small craft advisory southward through ,  .	
Offshore, the storm produced winds of up to  mph ( km/h), as well as waves up to  feet ( m) in height.	
The combination of the winds and rough waves drove a freighter ashore along   in the Outer Banks, after the engine was damaged when water entered the fuel line.	
The  person crew initially planned to evacuate, but they later decided to stay on the freighter as the    were deployed to assist.	
The seas damaged a portion of the ship, but the entire crew was rescued without any injuries.	
The storm later brushed  , bringing rain, fog, warmer temperatures, and gusty winds.	
The combination resulted in downed power poles and tree limbs, leaving  houses without electricity.	

The storm was described as a "freak", forming    after the end of the hurricane season.	
The chief forecaster at    ,  , remarked that he was unsure how the cyclone developed.	
It is  only tropical or subtropical storm on record during    , and was  earliest tropical cyclone to strike   .	
Its structure initially was uncertain, and the storm was not included in the   hurricane season summary published by the    office.	
Ultimately it was included in the tropical cyclone database.	
Had it been operationally treated as a tropical cyclone, it would have been named Tropical Storm Able.	

On     a disturbance was  observed in the western   declared to have been a tropical cyclone.	
Winds were estimated at around  mph ( km/h), and it tracked rapidly northward, initially to the north-northwest.	
After passing near  along the  , it turned northeastward and brushed the northwest coast of .	
Early on   the storm approached Key West, and shortly thereafter moved ashore near  , .	
It quickly crossed the state, passing near  before emerging into the western  .	
The     office recorded a wind gust of  mph ( km/h), as well as sustained tropical storm force winds for   ; the station also recorded a barometric pressure of  mbar ( inHg).	

The hurricane season officially began on  , when the     in ,  began   operations.	
The agency, under the direction of   had access to  other weather stations across the  basin.	
 died during the season from a stroke while tracking Hurricane Hazel.	
Additionally, a group of Hurricane Hunters planes were put on standby for the season, able to be flown out into storms and collect data.	
During the season, there were  named storms, as well as an unnamed hurricane and a tropical depression.	
The seson officilly ended on  , lthough n unnmed tropicl storm formed  dy lter.	
In addition, Tropical Storm Alice developed on  , the latest a tropical cyclone has developed in the calendar .	

The storm produced significant rainfall in a  region of .	
The highest total in the state was  in .	
There, the rains caused flash flooding that entered over  houses.	
The flooding flooded  state highways, and also left portions of  inaccessible after reporting the heaviest rainfall in  .	
Large tomato fields were inundated, resulting in some crop damage.	
In portions of the state, the rains were beneficial due to  dry conditions.	
The storm spawned a tornado in   that injured  person.	
Damage throughout  was estimated at $3 million, mostly in the  area.	
In addition,  surfers drowned during the storm.	
Precipitation extended as far north as  , and coastal areas experienced high tides and gusty winds.	

A low pressure area formed along a dissipating cold front to the north of  .	
The system moved westward, developing some tropical characteristics by  .	
  , the storm moved over  before turning to the north.	
On  , it crossed over southeastern  near .	
The storm was never fully tropical, as its winds and precipitation extended far away from the center.	
It produced sustained winds of  with gusts to .	
After affecting , the storm crossed the western  and moved across the Outer Banks.	
The storm became extratropical on   offshore , and    it was absorbed by anor extratropical storm.	

The season officially began on  , the date that the Weather Bureau office in , , under the direction of  , began daily monitoring of all tropical disturbances and cyclones across the northern  .	
The agency had access to the Hurricane Hunters, a fleet of aircraft that obtain data by flying into storms.	
The Weather Bureau, in collaboration with other agencies, began a &ndash; project in  to obtain and analyze data on the structure of hurricanes.	
The season officially ended on  .	

The hurricane caused  deaths and considerable damage as an extratropical cyclone.	
It also caused $1,656,000 ( USD) in damage in , most of which came from a single tornado in .	

In its early stages, the storm dropped moderately heavy rainfall in , which caused damage to crops.	
A tornado near  and high tides on the west coast of the state also resulted in damage.	
Overall, losses in  were slightly more than $1.5 million ( USD).	
After becoming extratropical, the storm caused significant effects in  .	
Rough seas damaged or destroyed numerous fishing boats and caused  fatalities.	
High winds also disrupted communications in some areas.	

By  ,  made landfall near   border and dissipated over  on   .	
On  ,  of rain fell in only  .	
No impact was reported in .	
The storm dropped rainfall across , though the heavier amounts were mainly on the  coast.	
Precipitation peaked at  near Fellsmere, while rainfall reached  in some areas of the  metropolitan area.	
Although  was a depression at landfall, sustained winds between  were recorded in  , while a gust as high as  was reported in  .	
In , a pressure gradient combined with  to produce tides of  about normal.	

A tropical wave strengthened into a depression on  , and was named Tropical Storm  soon after.	
 moved quickly to the west and strengthened into a Category  storm by the time it churned through the Lesser Antilles.	
The hurricane remained a Category  as it passed into the , and moved just to the south of  on  2, and then veered more to the north which brought a landfall on the tip of .	
The storm then turned to the north and weakened to a Category  before it struck , but remained a hurricane the whole time over land.	
 then brushed against  and the east coast of  as it weakened from a Category  hurricane to a tropical storm.	
 killed a total of  people and caused serious property damage as it travelled through the   and into , totaling $198 million ( USD, $  USD) in damage.	

Alma made landfall near  ,  on   as a tropical depression, and became extratropical    over  .	
Although  passed just offshore, impact in  , if any, is unknown.	
In the  , winds of  mph ( km/h) was reported.	
Impact was severest in , where flash flooding caused  fatalities, destroyed several homes, forced the evacuation of  people in  , and resulted in a shutdown of  sugar mills.	
The storm brought light rainfall to , peaking at  near .	
Hazardous thunderstorms caused  death in  and damaged some roofs and building in  .	
In other states, impact was mostly in the form of rain, though a tornado near ,   destroyed a roof.	

In addition to the  named storms of  and  notable tropical depressions, there were several minor systems that were classified as depressions by the National Hurricane Center.	
The   systems of   were not classified as fully tropical, rar y were associated with  remnants of decaying cold fronts.	
On  , the  of these depressions formed northeast of the  and tracked in a curved motion before dissipating over open water on  .	
  , on  , another depression formed in the same general region; however, this system was shorter lived and dissipated    without significant movement.	
On  , another partially tropical system formed over open waters.	
The cyclone tracked northeast and dissipated late on   east-southeast of the Azores.	
On  , a brief depression formed near  but dissipated   .	
Roughly   into  officil hurricne seson,   depression of  yer formed just offshore soust Florid, ner Mimi.	
The system tracked northwest across the peninsula and briefly entered the Gulf of  on    making landfall along the  .	
The depression eventually dissipate on   over  .	

A broad area of low pressure organized into a tropical depression off the coast of  on  .	
After drifting to the southeast, it turned to the north-northwest and organized into a tropical storm on  .	
Subsequent to crossing western ,  accelerated to the northeast, and attained hurricane status late on  .	
It passed through the  Keys before entraining cooler, drier air from a stationary frontal boundary.	
Its convection became very disorganized, and  weakened back to a tropical storm early on   to the southeast of ; the storm crossed the , and becoming an extratropical cyclone before being absorbed by the frontal boundary on  .	

In the ,  brought high tides, hurricane force winds, and tornadoes, which caused significant damage in the archipelago, especially on Cat Cays.	
At least  houses were destroyed and left damage to the transport, communications, water, sanitation, agriculture, and fishing sectors.	
Overall,  caused  fatalities and $250 million ( USD) in damage in the .	
Throughout the southern portions of ,  brought very high winds; a wind gust of  mph ( km/h) was reported at a house in , .	
High winds caused catastrophic damage in , especially in  , where approximately  houses were either severely damaged or destroyed.	
In the ,  acres ( km2) of trees were knocked down and about   fish were killed.	
Rainfall in  was moderate, peaking at  in western  .	
Significant damage to oil platforms was reported, with  company losing  platforms, had  structures damaged, and  drilling wells blown off course.	
In ,  produced hurricane force winds along its path, which left about  without electricity, downed 80% of trees in the   , and caused significant agricultural damage.	
An F3 tornado in   the   damaged or destroyed  structures.	
 fatalities were reported in ,  of which were drowning victims offshore.	
Elsewhere, the storm spawned at least  tornadoes, especially in , , and .	
Overall,  caused  fatalities and $26 billion ( USD) in damage, making it the  costliest hurricane in  history, behind only Hurricane Katrina in  and Hurricane Ike in .	

Following 's closest approach, the    station in  recorded a minimum barometric pressure of, as well as  surface winds as the center of  passed a little to the west.	
The     in  reported a minimum central pressure of .	
Only  other reports of tropical storm force winds were reported on the  mainland, besides , were reported in associated with .	
In , sustained winds of  were observed at  UTC.	
Shortly thereafter, near  UTC, sustained winds of  with gusts up to  were reported in the same location.	
Several ships reported rough weather during 's existence, with the "Pacific Sandpiper" reporting a maximum wave height of .	
In , it is reported that waves in excess of  moved through the city.	
In several states, heavy rainfall between  to  inches was recorded.	
However, in  , the highest rainfall total was observed, at .	
According to "The  " and the "West Hawaii ",  is blamed for the death of  deaths, which includes both direct and indirect.	
Most of the fatalities came from heavy rainfall associated with the system.	
A state of emergency was declared in at least  states in  following 's passage, and the    said that  people were evacuated in  states.	
Additionally, at least  people were left homeless.	
Finally, rough seas near   caused all  tons of sulfuric acid to leak aboard the  beached cargo tanker, "Betula".	

While hurricanes are often seen as the biggest weather threat to , tornadoes are relatively common in  , although the vast majority of the tornadoes that strike -Dade  are small, relatively weak F0 or F1 tornadoes.	
Most of these tornadoes form as either waterspouts off  , as part of the frequent afternoon thunderstorms, or spawned from a tropical storm or hurricane.	
Tornadoes can and have occurred in every month of the year in  .	

The tornado formed in the afternoon (around 2:00 PM), initially touching down in the Silver Bluff Estates area.	
It then swept through , bypassing the city's skyscrapers.	
It then crossed the MacArthur  and the  , towards  , sideswiping a cruise ship.	
The tornado lifted from the water halfway through   and touched down briefly again in  , flipping over a car and then dissipating.	
The Storm Prediction Center in  had predicted tornadoes in the area and warned that there might be more to come.	

