On October 19, a moderate tropical storm was found due west of Miami, Florida.
It continued northward while continuing to strengthen.
The center of circulation (the center of the storm) just missed Bermuda during the afternoon of October 21.
The storm became extratropical with winds of 60 mph (95 km/h) after slightly weakening.
The storm caused no reports of damages or deaths in Bermuda.

However, the hurricane weakened to a tropical storm again on October 14 as it moved overland, and began to curve north-northwest, restrengthening to a major hurricane by October 17 while it was west-southwest of Cuba.
The hurricane made landfall over Cuba on the evening of October 17.
The hurricane passed over southern Florida near Pigeon Key and Downtown Miami on October 18.
The hurricane continued traveling north-northwest; however, it was forced to re-curve south-southwest, as a result of a high-pressure area.
The hurricane weakened to a tropical storm overland, eventually becoming a tropical depression.
The system meandred into the Gulf of Mexico, making a final landfall in Central America on October 23.

In Miami, over 100 houses were destroyed, and the Episcopal and Methodist churches were completely destroyed.
The jail in Miami was nearly completely dismantled, and the prisoners were evacuated.
In Fort Pierce, the Peninsula and Occidental railcar sheds collapsed, with the roofs blown away.
A two-story brick saloon was destroyed during the hurricane.
The Miami telegraph office reported street flooding in the city, and that the telegraph office was flooded.
Damage in Miami amounted to $160,000.
In Key West, houses and trees were knocked down.
In St. Augustine, the tide was described as the "highest in ten years," where streets were flooded throughout the city.
At least 70 passengers on the steamers "St.
Lucia" and "Peerless" drowned during the storm near Elliott Key.
The steamers "Campbell" and the "Sara" were destroyed near the Isle of Pines, and the "Elmora" sank.
Telegraph lines were also down south of Jupiter.

Havana sustained major damage from the hurricane, with 50 houses destroyed, and cable operators in Miami, Santiago, and Jamaica were unable to reach telegraph services in the city.
The wall of a legation of the United States was blown down.
Vedado's sea baths were severely damaged.
Havana's streetcar service was temporarily disrupted by the storm.
Trees were blown down in the parks of Havana.
Twenty people were killed in the city, while in Batabanó, nine people were killed, with many others missing.
In Matanzas, the location of the United States' 28th Infantry, tents were destroyed and there was widespread damage.
However, nobody was killed or injured in the city.
In San Luis, tobacco crops were ruined, and 150 tobacco barns in the Alquízar municipality were destroyed.
The sugar crop in Pinar del Río Province survived well during the hurricane.
In the La Guria section of Cuba, the banana crops were completely destroyed.
Rivers topped their banks throughout the country.

The first and only tropical storm of the season originated in a tropical wave, as indicated by weather maps from September 13.
The Atlantic hurricane database initially listed the system as a tropical cyclone by September 14, although the 2005 reanalysis concluded that a closed low pressure system had not yet developed.
Maps from September 15 display a weak low north of The Bahamas; however, other observations place the new cyclone further south.
Decreases in air pressure occurred throughout the islands, providing "strong indications of a disturbance".
The system is officially estimated to have become a tropical depression at 0000 UTC on September 15, approximately  east of Miami, Florida.
It became a tropical storm about 12 hours later and, that same evening, storm warnings were issued from the east coast of Florida to as far north as Hatteras, North Carolina.

Forecasters began to issue advisories to weather stations in the United States when the storm was detected on August 5.
Forecasters then began to issue warnings to Haiti and Cuba on August 11.
Evacuation reports in both Cuba and Haiti, however, are unavailable.
After the storm hit Jamaica, forecasters predicted the storm might hit southern and western Cuba.
Between August 12 and 13, forecasters began to issue tropical storm warnings to the Florida Keys and Miami, Florida ahead of the storm due to shipping interests.
By August 13, the hurricane trekked westward as forecast.
At 5 PM (EST), the tropical storm warnings were then changed to hurricane warnings which extended to the Florida Panhandle.
On the 14th, however, the hurricane did not recurve north and warnings for Miami and later the Florida Keys were dropped, as the storm instead continued west-northwest.
Because the 1915 hurricane was large (exact size unknown), forecasters began to issue tropical storm warnings from coastal Louisiana to the Florida Panhandle.
In addition, warnings were issued in Brownsville, Texas.
Since it was clear that the hurricane would make landfall in Texas, the warnings were changed for the entire Texas coastline.
After the hurricane made landfall, officials continued to issue warnings until the storm dissipated on August 23.

It crossed Hispaniola on August 23, weakened to a tropical storm, and paralleled the north coast of Cuba.
This fast moving storm turned northward, passing west of Miami, Florida on August 25.
It dissipated on August 26.

This large storm spread winds of  across Miami, Florida, Burrwood, Louisiana, and Galveston, Texas.
A total of 1500 cattle were driven off of Padre Island into Laguna Madre.
Heavy rains were common across southern Texas, with numerous locations recording  to  of rainfall within 24 hours, which set daily rainfall records.
The death toll in Texas was officially 286, but may have been as high as 600.

The storm surge damaged a fishing pier in St. Petersburg and destroyed a casino in Gulfport.
In Tampa, much of the city was flooded, and three people were killed in drowning incidents and flying debris.
In Pasco County, the hurricane destroyed the Mt.
Zion Baptist Church, which was never rebuilt.
In addition, the hurricane virtually destroyed much of Passage Key, part of which was later rebuilt.
In Tampa, several buildings of the historic Ballast Point Pavilion were destroyed by the storm.
A steamship capsized between Jacksonville and Miami and there were reports of damage to several other small boats offshore.
Agricultural damage from the hurricane was high, with citrus crop losses totaling to $1 million (1921 USD).
Damage to fertilizer and other materials also totaled to $1 million (1921 USD).
In all, the hurricane left 10 people dead (seven unaccounted for) and left $10 million dollars (1921 USD, $92.4 million (2005 USD).

The third tropical cyclone of the season formed 420 miles (675 km) southeast of Bridgetown, Barbados on August 16.
It moved northwest and crossed the eastern Caribbean as a minimal tropical storm on August 18.
On August 19, it passed east of San Juan, Puerto Rico and re-entered the Atlantic Ocean.
On August 20, it quickly strengthened to the equivalent of a Category 1 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
The cyclone slowed and turned west on August 21, and it continued to strengthen east of the northern Bahamas.
The cyclone strengthened to a peak intensity of 135 mph (215 km/h) north of Grand Bahama on August 24.
At the time, the storm was nearly stationary.
Several ships reported winds of hurricane force, rough seas, and atmospheric pressure readings to 970 mbar (28.67 inHg) from August 23 through August 25.
The cyclone turned sharply north, remaining east of the East Coast.
On August 25, it quickly weakened, and it passed close to Cape Hatteras on August 26.
It transitioned to an extratropical cyclone, and it passed over Nova Scotia on August 27.
The approach of the storm led to the issuance of storm warnings from Cape Hatteras to Miami, Florida on August 22.
Hurricane warnings extended from Beaufort, North Carolina to Cape Henry.
In advance of the storm, radio broadcasts also advised shipping interests to remain cautious north of Puerto Rico.
No damages occurred along the coast because of the recurving storm.
Peak wind gusts reached 74 mph (120 km/h) at Hatteras, North Carolina, and two people drowned along the coast.
Damage was minimal, though Ocracoke Island was flooded during the storm.
The White Star passenger liner  was battered by the storm on August 26 while the ship was off the Nantucket Shoals.
The ship arrived in New York the following day with 75 injured after having what was reported as a "100-foot wave" crash over the liner.

Late on October 13, a minimal tropical storm formed in the western Caribbean Sea east-northeast of northern Honduras.
At the time, it was first detected when atmospheric pressures decreased over the Swan Islands on October 14.
It moved slowly west-northwest, and it gradually turned north on October 15.
Late on October 15, it steadily intensified, and it attained hurricane intensity on October 17.
On October 19, it strengthened to the equivalent of a major hurricane, and it struck the Pinar del Río Province of Cuba with sustained winds of at least 120 mph (195 km/h).
A ship reported a minimum central pressure of 922 mbar (27.23 inHg) near Cayo Jutías, suggesting that the cyclone may have been stronger.
On October 20, the hurricane turned east-northeast in response to the southward movement of a ridge, and it quickly weakened.
Early on October 21, it struck Southwest Florida near Naples, Florida as a Category 1 hurricane, and it entered the Atlantic Ocean north of Miami with 70 mph (110 km/h) winds.
The cyclone steadily weakened as it moved across the western Atlantic Ocean, and it dissipated west-southwest of Bermuda on October 23.
Following reanalysis released in March 2009, the storm was re-classified as a Category 5 with winds of 165 mph (270 km/h) and a minimum pressure of 910 mbar (hPa).
This makes Hurricane Ten the earliest Category 5 recorded in the Atlantic Basin and ties it with Hurricane Ivan for the 10th most intense storm ever recorded in the Atlantic.

Several days prior to striking Florida, the outer circulation began producing rainfall across the state.
Storm warnings were issued along the east and west coastlines northward to Cedar Key and Titusville.
Later, hurricane warnings were issued for much of the same area, and schools in the Tampa area were closed as the storm was expected to move ashore.
The hurricane first affected Florida when it passed west of Key West, where sustained winds of 66 mph (107 km/h), along with gusts to 74 mph (120 km/h), were reported.
Little damage occurred in the region, limited to downed trees; this was due to advanced warning by the U.S. Weather Bureau, which advised ships to remain at port and for residents to secure property.
Later, the hurricane moved ashore in a sparsely populated region of southwestern Florida.
Damage was reported in Fort Myers and Punta Gorda and communications were temporarily cut, although no deaths were reported.
Heavy rainfall was reported along its path, and one location accumulated 23.22 inches (590 mm) in a 24 hour period; this established a new one-day rainfall record in the state.
A station in Miami recorded 12.18 inches (309 mm), and wind gusts in the area approached hurricane force.
The combination of winds and rain damaged 5% of the local citrus and avocado crop.
The rainfall flooded streets, homes, and commercial buildings in the Miami area, and hundreds of people were left without telephone access.
No impact was reported in the Bahamas.

After exiting Cuba into the Gulf of Mexico, the hurricane weakened greatly.
On October 20 it passed a short distance west of Key West, Florida, and very early on October 21 the hurricane moved over Marco Island with winds of 90 mph (150 km/h).
The cyclone weakened further as it turned eastward through the state, deteriorating to tropical storm status as it passed near or over Miami.
It accelerated east-northeastward, moving over the Abaco Islands in The Bahamas.
Gradually weakening, the storm interacted with an approaching cold front; late on October 23 it transitioned into an extratropical cyclone, and shortly thereafter it was absorbed by the front.

During its passage through Florida, the storm produced torrential rain over coastal cities, peaking in Miami at .
The storm caused significant property and crop damage along the Gulf Coast of Florida.
Trees, power lines, and telegraph wires were knocked down by high winds along the Suwannee River.
Communication throughout southern Florida was severed as miles of telegraph wires were downed during the evening of November 30.
Structures previously considered safe from storms due to their location over 100 ft (30.4 m) inland sustained significant damage, probably from storm surge.
Beaches along the Atlantic coast also sustained considerable damages from the storm.
Four people were killed near Tampa in two separate incidents .
The first occurred when a house collapsed on three men, pinning them to the ground.
The second incident occurred after a woman ran outside her home and was struck by a tree limb.
At least 12 workmen were killed and 38 others injured after the bunkhouse they were sleeping in collapsed due to high winds.
The facility in which they were working in also sustained $200,000 in damage from a fire ignited by the cyclone.
Throughout Florida, property loses were estimated at $3 million, with $1 million in Jacksonville alone.
Damages to the citrus industry  were also significant, with total losses exceeding $600,000.
Losses in Miami amounted to $250,000 as up to  inundated the city for more than two days.

The "1925 Miami tornado" was a strong tornado that struck Dade County, Florida on April 5, 1925.
It remains the deadliest tornado to affect the south Florida county, and it is estimated to have been the most intense tornado to strike the Miami area.
The tornado caused five deaths and produced damage totals that were estimated near $200–300,000 (1925 USD).
35 people were also hospitalized because of injuries.
The tornado remains the only tornado to cause multiple fatalities in Dade County.
It is estimated that the tornado may have produced "F3" damage based on photographs taken after the passage of the thunderstorm.

The exact path and strength of the tornado is uncertain, since it occurred prior to modern records which began in 1950.
The first tornadoes to directly receive damage ratings on the Fujita scale occurred in 1971.
The 1925 tornado was first reported in its formative stage over the Everglades near Hialeah, where several golfers noted a funnel cloud around 1:00 p.m. Hail was reported with the parent thunderstorm prior to the sighting of the funnel cloud.
The slow movement of the storm was accompanied by a large amount of people outside during the Sunday afternoon, which led to a considerable amount of reports; several reports originated from passing motorists.
The vortex touched down around 1:15 p.m., and the tornado was described as a "very slender" funnel that frequently lifted from the ground for brief periods.
The debris swirling around the rotation was compared to smoke from "burning oil."
Later, the slow moving tornado passed over a dairy farm, killing one person and injuring 20 people.
Losses from the farm reached $100,000.
The tornado eventually intensified and destroyed numerous properties northwest and north of the city of Miami, causing at least three deaths.
Some residents successfully attempted to flee in automobiles, though the cars were wrecked and some were thrown for distances.
The tornado became rain wrapped, weakened, and dissipated over the northern portion of Biscayne Bay, though it destroyed some power poles along the eastern half of its damage path.
Hail associated with the storm was measured to three inches (7.6 cm) in diameter, damaging automobiles and residences' roofs.
The damage path was less than 100 yards (0.05 miles) in width, and the funnel was visible for nearly one hour.
The thunderstorm also affected the communities of Ojus, Little River, Biscayne Park, and Lemon City.
In total, the tornado demolished nearly 50 residences.

In Cuba, impacts were apparently minimal.
The cyclone produced sustained winds up to  and pressures as low as  in the Bahamas.
In South Florida, the cyclone apparently did not produce tropical storm-force winds, although thunderstorms produced  of rainfall at Miami, Florida, on September 16.
No severe effects occurred and the storm was not mentioned in the monthly notations of the local U.S. Weather Bureau office in Miami.
However, its presence and that of the Great Miami hurricane, then of Category 4 intensity and in the South-Central Bahamas, caused confusion in the local press.
On the morning of September 17, one day before the Miami hurricane struck, the "Miami Herald" published a front-page story on the weak tropical storm in the Straits of Florida and included statements by the editors that it was not anticipated to strike Florida;  news articles on the hurricane, which was expected to deliver “destructive winds” to the area, were not published by other local newspapers until the afternoon, leaving Miami residents confused as to the extent of the danger.

Early on September 11, as Hurricanes Four and Five remained active in the Central Atlantic, a weak tropical depression formed in the western Caribbean Sea about  east-southeast of the Swan Islands, Honduras.
Without strengthening substantially, the depression moved west-northwest for the next day and a half, passing north of the Swan Islands based upon weather reports, and then curved northward.
On September 13, the depression gradually curved to the northeast, and on the afternoon of September 14 its center made landfall southeast of the city of Cienfuegos, Cuba.
The cyclone then crossed the central region of Cuba, entering the Bahamian islands in the evening.
Shortly thereafter, by 00 UTC on September 15 the depression intensified into a weak tropical storm with maximum sustained winds of , the strongest in its entire life span.
The cyclone then turned north, passing about  west of the Bahamian capital Nassau in the afternoon.
The weak storm then turned abruptly to the northwest, having been trapped by a building ridge, and early the next day, while centered north of Andros Island, it assumed a gradual curve to the southwest.
Late that day, it degenerated back into a tropical depression and dissipated over the Straits of Florida on September 17, as the Great Miami hurricane approached from just  to the east-southeast.

By 12 UTC on September 11—just twelve hours after the formation of the preceding cyclone—a new tropical storm formed in the Atlantic about  east of the island of Martinique, though it probably originated earlier and was undetected; operationally, the storm was not tracked until September 14.
Steadily moving north of due west, the cyclone quickly became a hurricane the next day, and over the next three days, while bypassing the Greater Antilles to the north, it continued to intensify to a major hurricane, with maximum sustained winds of at least , yet few ships were near the eye with which to determine its path.
On the afternoon of September 16, the cyclone peaked at , near the upper threshold of the modern-day classification Category 4, and shortly thereafter passed just  north of the island of Grand Turk, striking Mayaguana at peak intensity early the next day.
Continuing over the South-Central Bahamas and Andros Island on September 17–18, the cyclone, with winds of , then struck South Florida near Perrine,  south of Downtown Miami, shortly before 12 UTC on September 18, with its large eye passing over the Miami metropolitan area.
Swiftly crossing southernmost Florida, the potent hurricane weakened slightly before entering the Gulf of Mexico near Punta Rassa in the afternoon, and its path gradually curved northwest on September 19.
Late on September 20, its path slowed drastically and curved west, making landfall near Perdido Beach, Alabama, with winds of  and a measured pressure of  in the calm eye.
Quickly weakening thereafter, the cyclone paralleled the coasts of Alabama and Mississippi, dissipating more than two days later over Louisiana.

Throughout the Bahamas, reports of damage were relatively scarce despite the intensity with which the storm struck the region.
However, numerous structures were completely destroyed.
Within days of the hurricane striking Miami, newspapers reported death tolls as high as 1,200, fearing catastrophic damage in the city.
This number gradually decreased as persons initially feared dead were found alive.
According to estimates in the past decade, the storm was responsible for 372 deaths in the Southeastern United States, 114 of which took place in Miami and at least 150 at Moore Haven, where a storm surge estimated as high as  overtopped portions of a levee on Lake Okeechobee.
Prior to 2003, the U.S. death toll was long listed as 243.
Many people in Miami, transients who knew little of hurricanes, perished after examining damage during the passage of the eye, unaware that the back end of the storm was approaching.
Flimsy structures built to house workers during the Florida land boom of the 1920s were completely leveled.
The hurricane partially contributed to the end of the land boom, which was in decline by early 1926.
In terms of monetary losses, damage from the hurricane was estimated to be as high as $125 million ($  US$).
Up to 4,725 structures throughout southern Florida were destroyed and 8,100 damaged, leaving at least 38,000 people homeless.
A storm surge of  occurred south of Miami and winds on Miami Beach were recorded at  before the anemometer blew away.
The lowest pressure was estimated at , the seventh most intense in a storm to strike the United States.
The storm also produced significant damage, rainfall up to , and a storm surge up to  in the Florida Panhandle.
The entire state of Florida lost 35% of its grapefruit and orange crops combined, including nearly 100% losses in the Miami area.
In a study of hurricane damage statistics conducted in 2008, it was estimated that if a storm similar to that of the Miami hurricane were to occur in 2005 it would result in over $140–157 billion in damage.
In all, the storm caused at least 478 deaths along its path accounting for the revised toll in the U.S. since 2003.

Twelve hours after the Great Miami hurricane struck Alabama, the eighth tropical storm of the season formed in the east-central Atlantic about  southwest of Horta in the Azores on September 21.
Over the next three days, it moved north of due east and rapidly strengthened, becoming a minimal hurricane by 12 UTC on September 22 and later peaking at —equivalent to a moderately strong Category 2 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale—on the morning of September 24.
For about 24 hours thereafter, the cyclone briefly curved to the northeast before turning sharply to the east early on September 26.
Late that day, the cyclone swerved precipitously to the north, making landfall on the island of São Miguel near Ponta Delgada at peak intensity, becoming only the first of two confirmed hurricanes to strike the Azores since records began in 1851, the other being Hurricane Hannah in 1959, another landfalling Category 2 hurricane that struck the same island.
Curving northwest and then south of due west, the cyclone weakened after striking São Miguel and reverted to a minimal hurricane late on September 27.
It gradually completed a counter-clockwise loop through the western Azores, curving due south as a tropical storm, though its cool surface temperatures and enlarged size suggest it might have been a subtropical cyclone then.
Just afterward, late on September 28, it hit Faial Island near Horta with sustained winds near .
Over the next two days, it moved generally south-southeast and slowly weakened, curving suddenly east-southeast beginning on September 30.
Turning south of due east, it dissipated by 18 UTC on October 1.

The Cape Verde-type hurricane formed on September 6.
Moving west-northwest while traversing the tropical Atlantic, the storm later passed near St. Kitts on September 14.
By September 17 it was battering the Bahamas, impacting the Turks and Caicos Islands with winds estimated at .
Then, in the early morning hours of September 18, it made landfall just south of Miami between Coral Gables and South Miami as a devastating Category 4 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
The storm crossed the peninsula south of Lake Okeechobee, entered the Gulf of Mexico, and made another landfall near Mobile, Alabama as a Category 3 hurricane on September 20 before hooking westward along coastal Alabama and Mississippi, eventually dissipating on September 22 after moving inland over Louisiana.

In Florida, winds on the ground were reported around  and the pressure measured at  — though all such data is suspect.
Most of the coastal inhabitants had not evacuated, partly because of short warning (a hurricane warning was issued just a few hours before landfall) and partly because the "young" city's population knew little about the danger a major hurricane posed.
A  storm surge inundated the area, causing massive property damage and some fatalities.
As the eye of the hurricane crossed over Miami Beach and downtown Miami, many people believed the storm had passed.
Some tried to leave the barrier islands, only to be swept off the bridges by the rear eyewall.
"The lull lasted 35 minutes, and during that time the streets of the city became crowded with people," wrote Richard Gray, the local weather chief.
"As a result, many lives were lost during the second phase of the storm."

Coastal regions between Mobile and Pensacola, Florida also suffered heavy damage from wind, rain, and storm surge, but this paled beside the news of the destruction in Miami.
According to the Red Cross there were 373 fatalities.
Other estimates vary, since there were a large number of people listed as "missing".
Between 25,000 and 50,000 people were left homeless, mostly in the Miami area.

The damage from the storm was immense; few buildings in Miami or Miami Beach were left intact.
The toll for the storm was $100 million ($  USD).
It is estimated that if an identical storm hit in the year 2005, with modern development and prices, the storm would have caused $140–157 billion in damage.
After the hurricane, the Great Depression started in South Florida, slowing recovery.

The University of Miami, located in Coral Gables, had been founded in 1925 and opened its doors for the first time just days after the hurricane passed.
The University's athletic teams were nicknamed the Hurricanes in memory of this catastrophe.
The school's mascot is Sebastian, an ibis.
The ibis is a small white bird that can be seen around south Florida and especially on the UM campus.
An ibis was selected to represent the Hurricanes because of folklore in which it is typically the last bird to leave before a hurricane strikes and the first to return once it's gone.

The "1926 Miami hurricane" (or "Great Miami Hurricane") was a Category 4 hurricane that devastated Miami in September 1926.
The storm also caused significant damage in the Florida Panhandle, the U.S. state of Alabama, and the Bahamas.
The storm's enormous regional economic impact helped end the Florida land boom of the 1920s and pushed the region on an early start into the Great Depression.

Points further south along the Florida coast, such as Miami, received only a brush from the storm, resulting in rains and some light wind damage.
Flooding was also experienced at points such as Palm Beach.
Damage estimates in Florida exceeded $2.5 million.

In the aftermath of the hurricane in coastal Florida, it became apparent that well-constructed buildings with shutters had suffered practically no damage from winds that caused serious structural problems to lesser buildings.
Buildings with well-constructed frames, and those made of steel, concrete, brick, or stone were largely immune to winds, and the use of shutters prevented damage to windows and the interior of the buildings.
Coming on the heels of the 1926 Miami hurricane where a similar pattern had been noticed, one lasting result of the 1928 storm was improved building codes.

Thousands of people were left homeless in Florida; property damage was estimated at $25 million ($).
It is estimated if a similar storm were to strike as of the year 2003, it would cause $18.7 billion in damages.
The cyclone remains one of three Atlantic hurricanes to strike the southern mainland of Florida with a central pressure below 940 mbar (27.76 inHg), the others being the 1926 Miami hurricane and Hurricane Andrew of 1992.

Coastal damage in Florida near the point of landfall was catastrophic.
Miami, well south of the point of landfall, escaped with very little damage; Hollywood and Fort Lauderdale suffered only slight damages.
In Fort Lauderdale, numerous power lines and telephone wires were downed.
Northward, from Pompano Beach to Jupiter, buildings suffered serious damage from the heavy winds and 10 ft (3 m) storm surge, which was heaviest in the vicinity of Palm Beach; total coastal damages were estimated as "several million" dollars.
In West Palm Beach, more than 1,711 homes were destroyed, while the Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse's mortar was reportedly "squeezed ...like toothpaste" between the bricks during the storm, swaying the tower  off the base.
Because of well-issued hurricane warnings, residents were prepared for the storm, and the number of lives lost in the coastal Palm Beach area was only 26.
Inland, the hurricane wreaked much more widespread destruction along the more heavily populated coast of Lake Okeechobee.
Residents had been warned to evacuate the low ground earlier in the day, but after the hurricane did not arrive on schedule, many thought it had missed and returned to their homes.
When the worst of the storm crossed the lake—with winds measured on the ground at around 140 mph (225 km/h)—the south-blowing wind caused a storm surge to overflow the small dike that had been built at the south end of the lake.
The resulting flood covered an area of hundreds of square miles with water that in some places was over 20 ft (6 m) deep.
Houses were floated off of their foundations and dashed to pieces against any obstacle they encountered.
Most survivors and bodies were washed out into the Everglades where many of the bodies were never found.
As the rear eyewall passed over the area, the flood reversed itself, breaking the dikes along the northern coast of the lake and causing a similar but smaller flood.
Floodwaters persisted for several weeks, greatly impeding attempts to clean up the devastation.
Burial services were quickly overwhelmed, and many of the bodies were placed into mass graves.
Around 75% of the fatalities were migrant farm workers, making identification of both dead and missing bodies very difficult; as a result of this, the count of the dead is not very accurate.
The Red Cross estimated the number of fatalities as 1,836, which was taken as the official count by the National Weather Service for many years (and exactly equal to the official count for Hurricane Katrina).
Older sources usually list 3,411 as the hurricane's total count of fatalities, including the Caribbean.
However, in 2003 the U.S. death count was revised as "at least" 2,500, making the Okeechobee hurricane the second-deadliest natural disaster in United States history behind the Galveston Hurricane of 1900.
A mass grave at the Port Mayaca Cemetery east of Port Mayaca contains the bodies of 1,600 victims of the hurricane.

In Miami, a reading of 998 mbar (29.41 inHg) reading was recorded as the hurricane made landfall, and wind speeds between 90 and 100 mph (150 to 157 km/h) were recorded in Everglades City.
The hurricane spawned three tornadoes that touched down in Fort Lauderdale, Miami, and two other towns, with the Fort Lauderdale tornado being most destructive.
The tornado damaged a four story hotel, a railway office building and several cottages before dissipating 30 minutes after its formation.
In southwestern Florida, there was damage to orange and grapefruit crops.
Three people were killed after ignoring warnings and trying to ride out the storm.

While moving over Saint Christopher, the storm killed six people.
Heavy rain was reported throughout the Virgin Islands.
The hurricane caused the drowning of one person in the Bahamas, and moderate winds produced severe structural damage to the buildings in the archipelago.
In Florida, the National Weather Bureau issued storm warnings between Miami to Titusville, while Governor David Sholtz issued a mandatory evacuation for 4,200 residents in vulnerable areas around Lake Okeechobee.
Damage in Florida was minimal, limited to minor crops, roofs, and signs.
In southern Texas, the hurricane produced moderate damage of $500,000 (1933 USD, $  USD), including disrupted telephone and telegraph lines.
The hurricane produced high tides along the coast of Texas, covering parts of South Padre Island, and heavy rains in northern Mexico caused heavy damage.

In Cuba, people boarded up numerous buildings, and emergency workers assisted authorities in spreading the word about the impending storm; residents in vulnerable areas evacuated to shelters on higher ground.
The hurricane's powerful winds destroyed several houses in Camagüey, and heavy rainfall overflowed numerous rivers in low-lying districts.
The winds damaged and disrupted telephone and telegraph lines and injured a few people in Havana.
Despite government orders for police to kill any looters, large-scale looting occurred in Havana after the storm.
Two looters were shot to death, and a third was injured.
Two civilians were also wounded by snipers who fired to disperse thieves.
Residents in southeast Florida boarded up for the storm while the National Weather Bureau issued storm warnings for portions of the coastline.
The hurricane produced strong winds and rain in the Florida Keys and extreme southern Florida, but damage was minimal.
In northwest Miami, the hurricane spawned a tornado that damaged three houses and injured two.
Damage in the Bahamas is unknown.

On October 1, a tropical storm developed off the northeast coast of Nicaragua.
It moved slowly northward and steadily intensified, becoming a hurricane on October 3 just west of Jamaica.
The hurricane turned to the north-northwest and hit the Cuban province of La Habana with winds of 110 mph (175 km/h) on October 4. The hurricane passed over Havana and turned to the northeast and strengthened, becoming a major hurricane as it moved south of Miami, Florida.
The hurricane reached a peak intensity of 125 mph (205 km/h) while passing through the Bahamas on October 6.
The hurricane weakened as it accelerated to the northeast, and it became extratropical on October 8 to the south of Nova Scotia.
It paralleled the Nova Scotia coast, turned to the east-southeast, and lost its tropical characteristics on October 9 over the open north Atlantic Ocean.

On September 3, the first tropical cyclone watches and warnings for Florida were released around 4 p.m. (2100 UTC); storm warnings were issued in Miami, while hurricane warnings encompassed the coast from north of Miami to Melbourne.
Additionally, storm warnings extended from north of Melbourne to Jacksonville.
Storm warnings, which were issued around 10 p.m. (0300 UTC), were also disseminated from Key West to Cedar Key.

The threat of the storm prompted the United States Weather Bureau to issue southeast storm warnings for Key West, Florida.
Light rainfall from the storm was reported in Miami.
Before the storm made its final landfall, the Weather Bureau issued northeast storm warnings from Brownsville to Port O'Connor, Texas on July 5.
That same day, a hurricane warning was also issued for Brownsville.
The hurricane ultimately struck a sparsely-populated area of northeastern Mexico, causing several deaths and heavy damage in the country.
High winds downed trees and power lines, and damaged the roofs of several houses.
Along the beach, high tides damaged coastal structures and flooded some cars.
The effects extended into Texas, and Brazos Island, Port Isabel, and Port Aransas were flooded due to the storm surge.
High tides damaged ten piers in Port Isabel, and there was damage to buildings along the coast.
The storm damaged the cotton and fruit crops in south Texas from high winds and rainfall.
Rains from the storm ended an extended drought in the Brownsville area.

A rare early November hurricane strike in the Miami area, this storm began as a tropical storm near Bermuda on October 30.
Moving westward, the storm strengthened to a  Category 1 hurricane on November 1 while initially threatening the North Carolina coastline.
The system began to turn southwest on November 2, however, while continuing to strengthen to its peak of , while a ship recorded a minimal pressure of 980 mbar.
The hurricane continued moving slowly south-southwest while weakening slightly, eventually making landfall near Miami Beach, Florida, as a  minimal hurricane on November 4 with a measured pressure of 973 mbar at landfall.
The system crossed the southern end of the Florida peninsula shortly thereafter, eventually entering the southeast Gulf of Mexico as a minimal hurricane near the Dry Tortugas on November 5.
The hurricane then weakened into a tropical storm while beginning a slow clockwise loop in the eastern Gulf, eventually curving back east while weakening to a depression just west of St. Petersburg late on November 7. The system dissipated just offshore on November 8.
It had killed 19 people and caused upwards of $5.5 million in uninflated damage.
The hurricane's unusual approach toward Florida and late arrival earned it the nickname of the Yankee Hurricane.

The "1935 Atlantic hurricane season" ran from June 16 through October 31, 1935.
The 1935 season featured below average activity, but it was eventful.
A Category 1 hurricane in the Caribbean killed an estimated 2,150 people in the Greater Antilles and Central America.
A Category 3 storm hit central Cuba and grazed Miami.
An extratropical hurricane hit Newfoundland.
The third tropical cyclone of the season struck the Florida Keys in southern Florida as a Category 5 hurricane; it remains the strongest landfalling hurricane in the United States (and anywhere in the Atlantic basin).
A rare November hurricane also affected the Miami—Fort Lauderdale area.

The "1935 Labor Day Hurricane" was the strongest tropical cyclone of the 1935 Atlantic hurricane season, and one of the most intense hurricanes to make landfall in the United States in recorded history.
The second tropical cyclone, second hurricane, and second major hurricane of the season, the Labor Day Hurricane was the first of three Category 5 hurricanes at landfall that the United States endured during the 20th Century (the other two being 1969's Hurricane Camille and 1992's Hurricane Andrew).
After forming as a weak tropical storm east of the Bahamas on August 29, it slowly proceeded westward and became a hurricane on September 1.
As Labor Day approached, hurricane warnings went up over the Keys.
A train was dispatched from Miami to evacuate the Works Progress Administration (WPA) construction workers, consisting almost entirely of Bonus Army veterans and their families, from the ramshackle camps they were living in Windley Key and Lower Matecumbe Key.
The train was almost entirely swept away before reaching the camps late on September 2. When it finally arrived in Upper Metecumbe Key only the engine survived the winds and wall of water that swept through the area.
The hurricane struck the Upper Keys on Labor Day, Monday, September 2. The storm continued northwest along the Florida west coast, weakening before its second landfall near Cedar Key, Florida on September 4. (If information is found on diameter please write.)

The United States Coast Guard and other state and federal agencies organized evacuation and relief efforts.
Boats and airplanes carried injured survivors to Miami.
The railroad was never rebuilt, but temporary bridges and ferry landings were under construction as soon as materials arrived.
Within a few years a roadway (Overseas Highway) linked the Keys to the mainland.
The storm caused wind and flood damage along the Florida panhandle and into Georgia.

The main transportation route linking the Keys to mainland Florida was one railroad line, the Florida Overseas Railroad portion of the Florida East Coast Railway.
A 10-car evacuation train, sent from Homestead, was washed off the track by the storm surge and high winds on Upper Matecumbe Key.
Only the locomotive remained on the rails, and was barged back to Miami several months later.
The National Weather Service estimated 408 deaths from the hurricane.
Bodies were recovered as far away as Flamingo and Cape Sable on the southwest tip of the Florida mainland.

The "Yankee Hurricane of 1935" was a rare Category 2 hurricane that affected the Bahamas and South Florida in November.
It remains the only tropical cyclone to affect Miami from the northeast in November.
The sixth tropical cyclone and fifth hurricane of the 1935 Atlantic hurricane season, it developed 227 miles (366 km) east of Bermuda.
It strengthened to a hurricane on November 1, initially posing a threat to the Carolinas.
Subsequently, the cyclone turned southwest.
It attained its peak intensity on November 3, and it made landfall near Miami Beach on November 4. The hurricane's unusual approach toward Florida and late arrival earned it the nickname of the Yankee Hurricane.

The cyclone produced winds of 60 mph (95 km/h) on Grand Bahama.
The duration of hurricane force winds ranged from 1–3 hours in the Abaco Islands, and five sponge fishing vessels were lost due to the hurricane.
The cyclone caused 14 deaths in the islands.
In Fort Lauderdale, winds unroofed several homes, and canals overflowed.
In South Florida, the hurricane dismantled communication lines, and "telegraph companies relayed" messages via Jacksonville and Atlanta.
High waves flooded Miami Beach.
Ten feet (3.5 m) of the Miami Beach causeway was eroded, and police halted traffic between Miami Beach and the mainland.
The death toll in Florida was low because of well executed warnings and advisories.
Winds shattered numerous plate glass windows in Miami's business district, while signs, roofing materials, and vegetation littered streets.
50 homes lost their roofs in Hollywood and Dania, and the oceanfront boardwalk was destroyed.
Precipitation damaged equipment at the Hollywood Beach Hotel, where many windows were broken.
Construction standards were improved in the aftermath of the 1928 Okeechobee Hurricane, reducing damages in subsequent storms.
35 people were treated for injuries at local hospitals.
Southeastern Miami was flooded by three feet (915 mm) of water.
The hurricane produced light rainfall in Miami that peaked at 4.04 inches (102.5 mm).
Five deaths were reported in Florida.
Total damages in Florida reached $5,500,000 in the Miami–Fort Lauderdale area.

Initially, the cyclone moved westward.
On November 1, the storm strengthened to a Category 1 hurricane, and it attained peak winds of 80 mph (130 km/h).
The tropical cyclone temporarily threatened the Carolinas.
On November 2, the hurricane reached its closest approach to Cape Hatteras; the center was located less than 145 miles (230 km/h) off the coast.
The cyclone's wind field remained narrow, and Hatteras recorded peak gusts of 40 mph (65 km/h).
The cyclone turned south, under the influence of northerly winds from a high pressure system.
On November 3, a ship reported a minimum pressure of 964 mbar (28.48 inHg) north of the Abaco Islands.
However, this value remains unofficial, pending reanalysis.
On November 4, the hurricane, with maximum sustained winds of 75 mph (120 km/h), made landfall north of Miami Beach near the present location of Bal Harbour, Florida.
The hurricane's lowest central pressure in Florida was recorded at 973 mbar (28.73 inHg) in Miami, Florida.

Shops and residences were "boarded up" in Nassau.
Precautionary hurricane signals were hoisted along the Florida east coast from Titusville to Miami, and the center was expected to make landfall between Miami and West Palm Beach.
Later, hurricane warnings were issued from Palm Beach to Naples.
200 men were evacuated from the Snake Creek area in the upper Florida Keys.
Workers in the Florida Keys were transported to concentration points in Miami and Homestead.
Maritime interests in the Gulf of Mexico were also warned, though the cyclone's remnants remained off the west coast of Florida.

On June 9, a tropical storm made landfall on the Pacific coast of Guatemala.
It moved northeastward across Central America, and entered the western Caribbean Sea on June 11.
The storm quickly re-organized, and again developed into a tropical storm on June 12.
It moved north-northeastward, resulting in light winds as it paralleled the eastern coasts of Belize and the Yucatan Peninsula.
After reaching the Gulf of Mexico with peak winds of , the storm turned to the northeast, then to the east.
On June 15, the tropical storm made landfall about  to the south of Fort Myers, Florida, and after crossing the state it passed over Miami before entering the Atlantic Ocean.
It weakened as it accelerated northeastward through the Bahamas, and on June 17 the system dissipated to the north of Bermuda.

While crossing Central America, the storm produced heavy rainfall.
In southern Florida, winds from the storm ranged from  to a peak of  in Miami.
The storm produced heavy rainfall in southern Florida, ranging from 8 to 15 inches (200 to 380 mm).
The rainfall caused flooding of highways and lowlands, drowned several livestock, and some damage.
The storm caused three indirect deaths when a Coast Guard airplane crashed in Tampa Bay while in search of small boats.

No deaths were reported in the region, although minor damage was inflicted on communication lines and homes and several injuries were reported.
Several communities lost electricity.
Some hospitals were left without power, forcing the delivery of six babies by candlelight.
The storm injured seven people in the Miami area, including five firefighters who were injured "as they fought a blaze fanned by the high winds" of the hurricane.
As the hurricane tracked inland, it passed over the Everglades, producing winds of .
Storm surge in the region triggered foot-deep flooding of some streets in local towns.
Docks and fishing equipment suffered extensive damage in the region.
As the hurricane passed offshore, winds reached  near Tampa Bay.
The storm also grounded a fishing schooner from Cuba off the coast of Collier County, Florida.
Although no one was injured, members of the schooner crew were detained by immigration authorities.

On making landfall, the storm generated high winds at the Fowey Rocks Light, although they were below hurricane force.
A peak wind gust of  was reported at Dinner Key with sustained winds up to .
Unusually little rain fell in association with the storm;  of precipitation was reported in Miami, while locations closer to the center of the cyclone received less than .
The light rainfall was evident throughout southeastern Florida, except for the Florida Keys, where thunderstorms enhanced the precipitation.
This aspect of the storm was considered highly unusual, as most tropical cyclones are characterized by heavy rainfall.
According to one study, the unusual precipitation patterns can be attributed to one of two possible conditions: "the air might have been too dry", or "the horizontal convergence of air might have been insufficient to produce a large enough transport of moisture upwards".
The intense winds blew salt water several miles inland; due to the lack of rainfall, the salt burned vegetation throughout the region.
The high winds brought down trees and utility poles and shattered some windows in Dade County.

Local chapters of the American Red Cross organized first-aid stations and shelters; transportation was provided to those who were unable to reach the shelters.
In advance of the storm, Pan American World Airways suspended flights departing from and arriving at Miami and redirected them to Havana, Cuba.
The United States Navy also prepared its bases in the Florida Keys for the arrival of the storm by securing boats to piers and canceling all shore leaves, while the United States Army Air Corps moved its planes from Morrison Field to a safer location inland.
The state of Florida stockpiled food for those affected by the storm, establishing depots in West Palm Beach, Miami, and Fort Myers, and the Governor of Florida, Spessard Holland, ordered state agencies to prepare for relief work.
A detachment of officers from the Florida Highway Patrol was sent to Miami and patrolled along highways to provide gasoline to motorists evacuating the storm.
The state also opened all of the school buildings in Dade County as emergency shelters.

During the days before the storm's arrival in Florida, the Weather Bureau issued 40 tropical cyclone-related advisories.
Extensive preparations that resulted in a low loss of life and property were attributed to the warnings.
In southern Florida, residents boarded up homes and businesses, and sought shelter in large structures.
Hurricane parties took place in bars and hotel rooms, while some residents sat in hotel lobbies, listening to radio broadcasts.
In Miami, stores sold out of various essentials—including bread and butter—as people prepared for the storm.
Evacuations were recommended from Homestead to Key West, and three Coast Guard planes dropped warnings to boats near the Florida coast.
The Civilian Conservation Corps also evacuated 150 of its workers from West Summerland Key to Key West.

On October 3, the first indications of a tropical system were observed  to the north of the Virgin Islands.
The next day, morning observations confirmed the presence of a circulation center, and on October 5 the storm tracked through the Bahamas and passed near Nassau.
At the time, the storm was found to be a compact, well-developed hurricane.
The hurricane's lowest recorded barometric pressure of 964 mb was reported on Cat Island.
The storm moved west-northwestward and attained peak winds of  on October 6; that same day, it made landfall  south of Miami, Florida.
Maintaining a small size, the hurricane moved through the Everglades, passing between Everglades City and Fort Myers.
Along the southern shore of Lake Okeechobee, winds gusted to ; barometric pressure there fell to 995 mb.

58 warnings and advisories were issued by the U.S. Weather Bureau during the nine day period when the storm impacted the western Caribbean islands and United States.
In Miami, watches and warnings were broadcast via microphones at two to three-hour intervals when the hurricane threatened the state.
The Red Cross reported 35,000 people were sheltered during the storm, which accounted for a small portion of those whom evacuated.
150 small vessels were secured in Key West, while operational Army and Navy planes were transferred from Florida to safer airfields.
In Cuba, communications were severed on the Isles of Pines, though Havana received ample warnings and was well prepared for the storm.

A hurricane was first detected on September 9, northeast of the Lesser Antilles.
It likely developed from a tropical wave several days before.
It moved west-northwestward, and steadily intensified to a  major hurricane on the 12th, northeast of the Bahamas.
Around this time, the Miami Hurricane Warning Office designated this storm "The Great Atlantic Hurricane" to emphasize its intensity and size, which appears to be the first time a name was designated by the office which evolved into the National Hurricane Center.
The hurricane turned northward and hit the Outer Banks later that day.

Although hurricane warnings were initially issued for the Leeward Islands and Guadeloupe through Sint Maarten, the cyclone passed north of the Lesser Antilles.
In advance of the storm, aircraft were evacuated from the Naval Air Station in Miami, Florida.
In total, hundreds of planes left vulnerable locations.
Residents were advised to heed advisories in Florida, the Bahamas, and northern Cuba.
On September 15, hurricane force winds were expected to affect areas from Fort Lauderdale, Florida through the Florida Keys, and hurricane warnings were accordingly released for this region.
Storm warnings also extended north to Melbourne and Tampa.
Military personnel sought shelter at Hialeah Race Track, while residents boarded homes and evacuated from coastal areas to public structures.
Boats were utilized to transport people from barrier islands, and small watercraft were secured along the Miami River.

In south Florida, peak gusts were estimated near 150 mph (240 km/h) at the Army Air Base in Homestead.
The strong winds destroyed 1,632 residences across the state, while 5,372 homes received damages.
The hurricane was the strongest tropical cyclone to strike Dade County until Hurricane Andrew in 1992.
In Miami, gusts reached 107 mph (170 km/h), and damages were minimal compared to communities in southern Dade County.
200 people were injured at the Army Air Base when a fire ignited during the storm, affecting three hangars and destroying 25 blimps, 366 planes, and 150 automobiles.
An additional fire also destroyed a furniture factory and a tile manufacturing plant in the northwestern portion of downtown Miami.
More than 1,000 Red Cross workers were activated in response to the cyclone.
In the Florida Keys, hundreds of residences were damaged.
Four people died across the state.

Hurricane warnings were issued for coastal areas of Florida, including the Florida Keys and Panhandle.
Storm advisories were also posted along the state's Atlantic coast, and portions of the Eastern Seaboard.
They were discontinued on October 8, although small craft warnings remained in place along the Northeastern Coast.
Pan American Airways canceled flights between Miami and Havana, Cuba, and also to Guatemala and Mérida, Yucatán.
Small navy vessels were secured, while larger ships rode out the storm at sea.
In the Key West neighborhood of Poinciana Plaza, 2,000 residents evacuated their homes.
Emergency shelters in the area were opened, and local business slowed considerably with the exception of a few grocery stores selling emergency supplies.
Schools closed as windows were boarded up on houses and businesses.
Throughout its course, the hurricane was heavily observed and investigated, resulting in an abundance of information that provided a more comprehensive understanding of a tropical cyclone's vertical structure.
It was profiled in detail in a "Monthly Weather Review" article by R. H. Simpson, titled "A Note on the Movement and Structure of the Florida Hurricane of October 1946".

This storm was named George by the Weather Bureau office in Miami, which worked in conjunction with the military at that time.
This powerful hurricane hit near Fort Lauderdale, Florida, on September 17.
It moved across the Gulf of Mexico as a weakened hurricane, but restrengthened before striking eastern Louisiana on September 19 as a Category 3 hurricane.
The hurricane caused $110 million in damage (1947 dollars) and 51 casualties.
Although it was very powerful at its Florida landfall, its destruction was less severe than that of previous tropical cyclones in the 1920s.

An airport in south Florida recorded peak winds of 80 mph (130 km/h).
The hurricane dropped 5-13 (12.7–33 cm) inches of rain across central and southern part of the state, including in Hialeah where the storm produced 3.6 inches (7.6 cm) in a one hour period and over 6 inches (15.2 cm) in a 75 minute period.
The flooding rains left many neighborhoods in up to six feet of water due to a previously wet summer, and left over 2,000 Miami-Dade County residents homeless.
The flooding also closed U.S. 1 from Miami to Fort Lauderdale, as well as a highway to Everglades City.
The hurricane spawned a tornado in both Coral Gables and Miami, one of which destroyed three warehouses.
In all, the hurricane caused $27.5 million dollars (1947 USD, $260 million 2005 USD) in damage in Florida.
Following the passage of the hurricane, Hialeah mayor Henry Milander declared a state of emergency and restricted access to the city.
In Miami, many residents had to use boats and rafts to survey damage and look for survivors, due to the flooding.
Winds in Georgia peaked at 85 mph (135 km/h) in Savannah, where the storm caused $20 million dollars (1947 USD, $189 million 2005 USD) in damage.
Elsewhere in Georgia, the storm caused $500,000 (1947 USD, $4.7 million 2005 USD) in damage, mainly due to a tornado that touched down near Hinesville.
Tides twelve feet above normal were reported from Georgia to South Carolina.
In Charleston, South Carolina, the high tides caused minor beach erosion and isolated street flooding, and one person was killed there by a falling tree.
In North Carolina, the high tides caused minor flooding.

In early October 1947, the origins of Hurricane Nine were detected north of Panama in the Intertropical Convergence Zone.
On October 9 at 0600 UTC, a minimal tropical storm was estimated to have formed with maximum sustained winds near ; thereafter it moved north by west.
By October 10, the storm accelerated and began strengthening steadily, reaching a peak intensity of  before striking land just before 0600 UTC on October 11 south of Pinar del Río in Pinar del Río Province, Cuba.
The center of the storm then began turning to the northeast before passing near Batista Field, which recorded wind gusts of up to .
Six hours after leaving northern Cuba, the storm rapidly became a hurricane, equivalent to Category 1 on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
Just after 00 UTC on October 12, the hurricane struck Florida just north of Cape Sable, and just before 1200 UTC it left the Miami metropolitan area near Pompano Beach—the same area that had been hit by the 1947 Fort Lauderdale hurricane one month previous—with winds of .
Unusually, the hurricane strengthened over land as it passed over South Florida, a phenomenon also observed in Tropical Storm Fay (2008), which struck the same region.

By October 12, the U.S. Weather Bureau issued hurricane warnings from the Miami metropolitan area to Vero Beach.

Upon striking southernmost Florida, the cyclone produced insignificant wind damage of $75,000 (1947 USD), largely due to its having struck an area hit by the more powerful 1947 Fort Lauderdale hurricane in September.
Peak winds in Florida were estimated to have reached  around Cape Sable, the area where the storm made landfall,  though these were not officially accepted as the maximum sustained winds.
At the Dry Tortugas, wind instruments reported readings up to  before failing due to “friction from lack of oil”; higher winds were believed to have occurred thereafter.
Elsewhere in South Florida, the U.S. Weather Bureau Air Station at Miami International Airport reported sustained winds of ,  while the Weather Bureau Office in downtown Miami recorded peak winds of .
Between the two stations, each  apart, the difference in atmospheric pressure was 3 mb (0.09 inHg), but the lowest pressure was not below 995.3 mb (29.39 inHg).
As the storm center passed just north of Fort Lauderdale, the city at 0700 UTC on October 12 reported a pressure of 982.1 mb (29 inHg) that was “still falling” at the time.
The eye of the storm by 0830 UTC passed over the Hillsboro Inlet Lighthouse, which reported calm winds for an hour—the second time in less than a month in which the eye of a hurricane passed over or near the lighthouse, the other having occurred on September 17.

Region-wide, the hurricane produced significant rainfall totals of  to —and, in the interior, locally as high as —causing severe flooding.
The highest measured rainfall total in 24 hours in South Florida was  in northeastern Broward County.
At a weather observation site in Hialeah,  of rain fell in as little as 10 minutes.
In all, as much as  fell in just 1¼ hour in the city; due to saturated ground preceding the arrival of the storm, much of the area flooded easily, leaving parts of the city submerged under  of water.
Similarly, “waist deep” depths were reported in nearby Miami Springs, Opa-locka, rural western sections of Pompano Beach, and many other cities of the Miami metropolitan area.
In Boca Raton, homes in the historic Old Floresta district that housed Army Air Field soldiers were flooded in up to  of water.
In the wake of the flooding in his city, Hialeah City Mayor Henry Milander blocked access from surrounding cities.
In the Miami area, the Little River and the Seybold Canal overflowed,  as did the New River once again in Fort Lauderdale, which had previously done so during the September hurricane.
During the storm, up to  of rain in three hours were reported to have fallen on the city of Fort Lauderdale, and sections of Broward County were under  of water.
On the Tamiami Trail, floodwaters extended all the way across the state from the Miami area to as far west as Everglades City in Collier County.
Due to the floods, septic tanks overflowed, leaving canal banks and patches of ground isolated by floodwaters; reportedly, U.S. Route 1, locally called Federal Highway and built largely upon the Atlantic coastal ridge—the highest elevation in South Florida—was flooded out between Miami and Fort Lauderdale.
Having been isolated by the floods, deer, rattlesnakes, and other wildlife, along with horses and cattle, sought shelter upon the remaining exposed ground, particularly levee banks.

In South Florida, the flooding from the September and October hurricanes led to the creation in 1949 of what is now the South Florida Water Management District, which under a Congressional plan was entrusted with the task of preventing a recurrence of significant flooding by forming an improved flood-control system to modulate the water table and by providing suitable water levels with which to water crops, prevent saltwater intrusion, and support recreational opportunities as well as the growing South Florida communities.
Large pumping systems were constructed, along with numerous new levees and canals, to mitigate the risk of large-scale flooding, yet population growth since the late 1940s is believed to have reduced the extent of vacant lands needed for effective drainage, thereby increasing the risk of damage during a flood similar to that of 1947.
In his 1974 book "Beyond the Fourth Generation," former EDD Chief Engineer Lamar Johnson voiced his concerns about large-scale development near the levees, which separate the Everglades water conservation areas from the Miami metropolitan area.
Johnson wrote, “It is my opinion...that anytime that area gets a foot or more of rainfall overnight, the shades of 1947’s flood will be with them again.”

Following the phonetic alphabet from World War II, the U.S. Weather Bureau office in Miami, Florida, which then worked in conjunction with the military, named the storm "King," though such names were apparently informal and did not appear in public advisories until 1950, when the first Atlantic storm to be so designated was Hurricane Fox.

Hurricane Four was first monitored as an area of low pressure over French West Africa on September 2, 1947.
Steadily tracking westward, the system was quickly classified as a depression before moving into the Atlantic Ocean near Dakar, Senegal, on September 4. Shortly thereafter, weather agencies lost track of the system over water due to a lack of ships in the region.
However, later analysis determined that the cyclone obtained tropical storm status, with maximum sustained winds of 50 mph (85 km/h), during the afternoon of September 4. The storm quickly intensified as it tracked nearly due west, attaining winds of 75 mph (120 km/h), equivalent to a Category 1 hurricane on the Saffir–Simpson Hurricane Scale, roughly 18 hours after being classified a tropical storm.
The hurricane maintained this intensity for nearly five days, taking a southwest turn on September 7 before turning to the northwest two days later, when the steamship "Arakaka" provided confirmation of its existence.
Beginning then, the cyclone began to intensify more rapidly as its forward speed increased; between September 10 and 15, reconnaissance missions by the United States Navy began monitoring the hurricane.
At 1500 UTC on September 11, a navy aircraft first penetrated the storm; in less than 24 hours, the storm strengthened, with another mission registering a barometric pressure of 977 mb (28.84 inHg), a drop of 22 mb in 24 hours.
On September 13, another airplane at 1930 UTC confirmed that the storm had deepened further to 952 mb (28.11 inHg) and its eye shrunk to ;  by that time the hurricane had reached Category 4 intensity.
The same mission reported a double eyewall,  a feature replaced by a large eye by the time the storm hit the Bahamas and Florida.
The next day, the storm attained the minimum pressure, 938 mb (27.70 inHg), recorded by aircraft reconnaissance during its life span, yet continued to intensify thereafter.
Early on September 16, as its movement slowed greatly and turned westward near the northern Bahamas, it attained its peak intensity of 160 mph (260 km/h).
Following the phonetic alphabet from World War II,  the U.S. Weather Bureau office in Miami, Florida, which then worked in conjunction with the military, named the storm George, though such names were apparently informal and did not appear in public advisories until 1950, when the first Atlantic storm to be so designated was Hurricane Fox.

While retaining its intensity, the storm, its northwesterly course having been blocked by a ridge of high pressure, crossed the northern portion of the Abaco Islands, where on Elbow Cay the Hope Town weather station simultaneously estimated winds of 160 mph (260 km/h) and recorded 960.7 mb (28.37 inHg)  as the center passed just to the north.
About 24 hours later on September 17, it made landfall near Fort Lauderdale, Florida, as a strong Category 4 hurricane with maximum sustained winds near 155 mph (250 km/h)—only three other hurricanes, all Category 5 (the 1935 Labor Day hurricane, Camille, and Andrew), are estimated to have had higher maximum sustained winds upon striking the United States.
To this date, the hurricane remains the only major hurricane to have struck Broward County, Florida, at that strength, and the only one to pass directly over the county seat of Fort Lauderdale,  though the 1926 Miami hurricane and Hurricane King caused significant damage in the county.
About 1700 UTC, the cyclone produced peak gusts of 155 mph (250 km/h) and sustained winds of 122 mph (195 km/h) at Hillsboro Inlet Light near Pompano Beach, Florida; the gust was the highest measured wind speed recorded in the state of Florida until 1992, when Hurricane Andrew produced a gust of  at Perrine.
The station also reported a pressure of 947.2 mb (27.97 inHg), the lowest during the passage of the storm over Florida, though its accuracy is uncertain as Fort Lauderdale, in the eye to the south, reported higher pressures, while winds at the lighthouse remained at hurricane force.
The hurricane moved slowly inland near 10 mph (16 km/h), and it diminished to a Category 2 hurricane over the Everglades.
Early on September 18, the cyclone entered the Gulf of Mexico near Naples, producing wind gusts of 120 mph (190 km/h) at Sanibel Island Light near Fort Myers.

On Lake Okeechobee, concerns about disastrous flooding were heightened by memories of the 1928 Okeechobee hurricane on the south shore and of the 1926 Miami hurricane at Moore Haven.
During the storm, tides peaked at  on the north shore of the lake  and  on the south shore at Clewiston and Moore Haven, nearly overrunning the Herbert Hoover Dike that surrounded the lake.
However, due to revamped improvements in the dike, the storm caused only minor damage, and the dike prevented a repeat of the flooding of 1926 and 1928, in which over 2,500 people drowned.
Nevertheless, floodwaters in the Everglades region resulted in significant losses to cattle, and hundreds of small block homes in the agricultural districts were blown off their foundations.
Much of the marshy country was waterlogged during and after the storm.

On the east coast of Florida, many cities experienced significant flooding; tides of up to  affected Broward and Palm Beach counties, washing out large portions of State Highway A1A between Palm Beach and Boynton Beach, as well as between Sunny Isles Beach and Haulover.
High tides carved a channel  deep and rendered a nearby road impassable while nearly reopening New River Inlet, which had silted over and never re-emerged since the 1935 Yankee hurricane.
At Miami Beach many of the 334 resort hotels as well as homes and apartments were battered by waves.
There, a three-to-four-ft-deep (0.9-to-1.2-m) layer of sand covered many oceanfront grounds, and nearby neighborhoods on the Venetian Islands, like Belle Isle, were flooded to a depth of several feet.
As it crossed South Florida at about , the storm dropped a prodigious amount of rain over a broad area, peaking at  at Saint Lucie Lock.
In Miami, the city manager claimed  of city streets were flooded out, while in Miami Springs half the homes were flooded.
The town of Davie, having lost 35,000 "citrus" trees to floodwaters in preceding months,  suffered devastating losses to groves and vegetable beds.

On the evening of September 15, the U.S. Weather Bureau expected the storm to recurve, precipitating a possible landfall between  Jacksonville, Florida, and Savannah, Georgia.
As a precautionary measure, small watercraft between Jupiter, Florida, and Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, were advised to remain in port.
Early on September 16, the forecast was revised, and hurricane warnings were issued for the Florida east coast from Titusville to Fort Lauderdale, later to be expanded to Miami.
As the hurricane approached Northern commercial flights were grounded, and 1,500 National Guard troops were readied for mobilization if “deemed necessary” by Florida Governor Millard Caldwell.
4,700 persons in Broward County moved into shelters established by the Red Cross, while up to 15,000 people evacuated the flood-prone Lake Okeechobee region.
In all, more than 40,000 people statewide moved into shelters established by the Red Cross.
Military aircraft were flown to safer locations, in some cases four days or more in advance.
Hotels in the threatened area filled quickly due to fears of a disaster similar to the 1928 Okeechobee hurricane; at Melbourne and Cocoa no vacant hotels were left for evacuees.
During the storm, the MacArthur, North Bay (now Kennedy), and Venetian Causeways in Miami were closed to traffic.
At Lake Worth alone, 1,800 people sheltered in nine official shelters during the storm.

Cuba, the site of the strongest winds, received significant damage from the cyclone, and eleven fatalities occurred on the island.
In Florida, the hurricane produced heavy rains and floods in the Miami region.
Three tornadoes also occurred in the state; however, no deaths were confirmed.
The impacts of Hurricane Seven, occurring two weeks prior to the storm, reduced the destruction from the October cyclone.
The cyclone also caused extensive destruction on Bermuda.

A weak tropical storm, with winds of 40 mph (70 km/h), formed 90 miles (145 km) east-northeast of Cape Gracias a Dios, Nicaragua, on October 3.
The cyclone, moving northwest, strengthened to a hurricane on the next day.
The system was noted as an organized tropical cyclone at 10:45 a.m.
(1545 UTC) on the same date.
On October 5, the hurricane intensified and attained winds of at least 120 mph (195 km/h).
Subsequently, the hurricane, reaching a peak intensity of 135 mph (215 km/h), made landfall east of Almacén in the Pinar del Río Province, Cuba.
The center passed west of Havana, where winds were measured near 132 mph (213 km/h).
Later, the hurricane made landfall near Marathon on the evening of the same date.
Maximum sustained winds were near 125 mph (200 km/h), and Sombrero Key reported a pressure of 975 mbar (28.80 inHg).
A lull, indicating the passage of the eye, persisted for 45 minutes at Marathon and the Bahia Honda Bridge.
Maximum winds were estimated near 100 mph (161 km/h) in the Florida Keys.
The hurricane passed over Miami around 7 p.m. (00 UTC); sustained winds of 90 mph (145 km/h) were documented at the U.S. Weather Bureau's airport station, and the lowest pressure was 979 mbar (28.92 inHg).
The duration of the center was 35 minutes at the station; the lull lasted for a longer period at the Miami City Office, but the pressure did not drop below 981 mbar (28.96 inHg).

A total of 26 bulletins were released by the Miami Weather Bureau office.
In Cuba, eleven deaths were attributed to the tropical cyclone.
Homes and cattle were swept away by flash flooding.
300 injuries were reported, and damages reached $6,000,000 (1948 USD).

The hurricane, reminiscent of Hurricane Floyd in 1987, produced minimal damage in the Florida Keys.
In southern Florida, the cyclone produced a storm surge of 4.5 feet (1.4 m) on Biscayne Bay.
Rainfall exceeded 9.5 inches (241.30
mm) at the Miami airport station, and Miami streets were flooded by deep water.
Water resembled flooding streams in the streets of Homestead, Miami Springs, Hialeah, and sections of Miami Beach.
In Hialeah, the city mayor reported water depths of 3.5 feet (1.1 m) in the streets.
The city had been plagued by floods in recent years.
A Miami bridge, located near the Miami River, was damaged by a loose barge during the hurricane.
Planes were overturned and damaged by strong winds at the Tamiami Airport.
The hurricane produced three tornadoes prior to landfall.
One tornado, touching down around 4 p.m., demolished 25 homes south of Pompano Beach.
A total of 29 residences were damaged or destroyed.
Forty-four minutes later, the second tornado struck homes west of Fort Lauderdale.
One building, containing two stories, lost its roof, while five homes incurred damage.
Barns were damaged or destroyed.
Losses reached $15,000 (1948 USD).
Another tornado destroyed three homes in the city of Opa-locka, where damages reached $100,000 (1948 USD).
The tornado flipped cars and inflicted extensive damage at the Royal Palm dairy farm.
All of the tornadoes attained the equivalence of F2 intensity on the modern Fujita scale.
The hurricane caused no fatalities across the state, and the recent passage of Hurricane Seven, which had resulted in pre-existing damage, mitigated the destruction from the October hurricane.
Total losses in Florida reached $5,500,000; more than one-half of the costs were attributed to property damage.
The lack of fatalities was unusual in a densely populated region.

The "1948 Miami hurricane" was one of the strongest tropical cyclones of the 1948 Atlantic hurricane season.
The hurricane, the second most intense storm of the season, produced winds of 130 mph (215 km/h) in the Havana, Cuba region.
The eighth tropical storm, fifth hurricane, and the fourth major hurricane of the season, it developed east-northeast of Cape Gracias a Dios, Nicaragua.
Subsequently, it intensified over the western Caribbean Sea, attained winds of hurricane strength, and made landfall on western Cuba.
The cyclone, which was the equivalence of a Category 4 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale, crossed the island and struck the Florida Keys as a major hurricane.
The center passed over Miami, departed near Fort Lauderdale, and crossed the Atlantic Ocean south of Bermuda.

In Florida, the hurricane produced hurricane force gusts from Miami Beach to Saint Augustine.
The majority of the state experienced sustained winds of at least 50 mph (85 km/h).
The storm produced the most severe conditions over the Lake Okeechobee region since 1928, and peak gusts were measured from 100 (161 km/h) to 126 mph (203 km/h) near the lake.
The minimum central pressure near Lake Okeechobee was 956 mbar (28.24 inHg) at Canal Point; pressures were below 982 mbar (29.00 inHg) as far north as Levy County, which is located in the Big Bend of the state.

On August 25, the northern Bahamas were advised to initiate hurricane precautions, and a hurricane warning was issued for the islands.
South Floridians were encouraged to closely monitor the progress of the storm.
On August 26, hurricane warnings were released from Miami to Vero Beach; officials decided to cancel proposed evacuations of the Lake Okeechobee region, as the presence of the Herbert Hoover Dike was expected to prevent flooding.

On the southeast coast of Florida, unofficial wind gusts reached 155 mph (250 km/h) at Palm Beach and 160 mph (260 km/h) at Stuart, respectively.
Vero Beach reported sustained winds of 97 mph (156 km/h) and peak gusts of 110 mph (177 km/h).
Tides reached 12 feet (144 in) above normal at Belle Glade and Clewiston, but the Herbert Hoover Dike remained intact, protecting the area from severe flooding.
Minimal erosion occurred in some locales.
Palm Beach, Jupiter, and Stuart experienced the most severe damage from the storm in south Florida; hundreds of homes, apartment buildings, stores, and warehouse buildings lost roofs and windows.
Interior furnishings were blown through broken glass into the streets.
Severe damage was received by 40 percent of Stuart's residences and commercial structures, and 90 percent required repairs.
A church, baseball park, and ice company was destroyed in the area's black neighborhoods.
Many flimsy buildings were destroyed in the neighborhoods.
In West Palm Beach, cars were overturned in the interior of a dealership as winds shattered windows.
Sand and debris covered the island of Palm Beach.
Heavy rainfall resulted in flooding, and water entered many homes in Palm Beach and Martin counties.
Snakes and mosquitoes infested many residences.
Precipitation totals of 8.18, 7.10, and  were measured at Belle Glade, Okeechobee, and St. Lucie Lock, respectively.
Miami received less damage, although trees and power lines were knocked down.
Winds reached 60 mph (97 km/h) in the city.
Radio towers were toppled in Lake Worth and Belle Glade, and three portions of the Jensen causeway near Sewall's Point were ripped away.
A hangar and beacon was destroyed at the local airport in Martin County.
500 people were homeless in Stuart.
A water mark of 8.5 feet (102 in) was recorded on the St. Lucie River near Stuart.

After reaching the southwestern Atlantic Ocean, King turned northward and later northwestward, striking downtown Miami, Florida on October 18 with winds of 122 mph (197 km/h).
It was the most severe hurricane to impact the city since the 1926 Miami hurricane.
Across Florida, damage totaled $27.75 million (1950 USD, $  USD), of which $15 million (1950 USD, $  USD) was in the Miami metropolitan area.
A preliminary survey indicated there were 12,290 houses damaged in the region, with an additional eight destroyed.
Along its path through the state, strong winds were observed around Lake Okeechobee, with a 93 mph (150 km/h) gust in Clewiston.
Overall, there were three deaths in the state.
Early on October 19, King weakened to tropical storm status over north-central Florida, and later that day it dissipated over western Georgia.
There was one additional death in Georgia.

The tropical cyclones of the season produced a total of 88 fatalities and $38.5 million in property damage (1950 USD, $  USD).
The first officially named Atlantic hurricane was Hurricane Able, which formed on August 12, brushed the North Carolina coastline, and later moved across southeastern Canada.
The strongest hurricane of the season, Hurricane Dog reached the equivalent of a Category 5 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson scale, and caused extensive damage to the Leeward Islands.
Two major hurricanes affected Florida: Easy produced the largest 24-hour rainfall total recorded in the United States, while King struck downtown Miami and caused $27.75 million (1950 USD, $  USD) of damage.
The last storm of the year, Hurricane Love, dissipated on October 21 after striking the Florida Panhandle and causing minimal damage.

On February 2, a tropical depression formed in the western Caribbean Sea two months after the end of the hurricane season.
It moved quickly north-northwestward and intensified into a tropical storm, followed by a northeast turn after brushing the Yucatan Peninsula.
Early on February 3, the storm struck Cape Sable, Florida and quickly crossed the state.
The Miami National Weather Service office recorded a wind gust of 68 mph (110 km/h) during its passage.
The winds damaged windows and power lines, catching residents and tourists off-guard.
The cyclone also dropped 2–4 inches (50–100 mm) of precipitation along its path, causing crop damage in Miami-Dade County.

Residents and tourists in southern Florida were unprepared for the unusual off-season storm.
Winds of up to 65 mph (105 km/h) spread across the area, causing damage to windows and power lines.
The storm dropped 2–4 inches (50–100 mm) of precipitation along its path; the combination of unseasonable rainfall and winds resulted in crop damage in Miami-Dade County.
After the storm moved into the western Atlantic, the Miami U.S. Weather Bureau issued storm warnings for the North Carolina coastline from Wilmington to Cape Hatteras; the region was warned to prepare for strong winds.
The agency also issued a small craft advisory southward through Charleston, South Carolina.
Offshore, the storm produced winds of up to 85 mph (140 km/h), as well as waves up to 35 feet (10 m) in height.
The combination of the winds and rough waves drove a freighter ashore along Portsmouth Island in the Outer Banks, after the engine was damaged when water entered the fuel line.
The 26 person crew initially planned to evacuate, but they later decided to stay on the freighter as the U.S. Coast Guard were deployed to assist.
The seas damaged a portion of the ship, but the entire crew was rescued without any injuries.
The storm later brushed New England, bringing rain, fog, warmer temperatures, and gusty winds.
The combination resulted in downed power poles and tree limbs, leaving 10,000 houses without electricity.

The storm was described as a "freak", forming about three months after the end of the hurricane season.
The chief forecaster at Miami U.S. Weather Bureau, Grady Norton, remarked that he was unsure how the cyclone developed.
It is the only tropical or subtropical storm on record during the month of February, and was the earliest tropical cyclone to strike the United States.
Its structure initially was uncertain, and the storm was not included in the 1952 Atlantic hurricane season summary published by the Miami Weather Bureau office.
Ultimately it was included in the tropical cyclone database.
Had it been operationally treated as a tropical cyclone, it would have been named Tropical Storm Able.

On February 2, Groundhog Day, a disturbance was first observed in the western Caribbean Sea, declared to have been a tropical cyclone.
Winds were estimated at around 35 mph (55 km/h), and it tracked rapidly northward, initially to the north-northwest.
After passing near Cancún along the Yucatan Peninsula, it turned northeastward and brushed the northwest coast of Cuba.
Early on February 3 the storm approached Key West, and shortly thereafter moved ashore near Cape Sable, Florida.
It quickly crossed the state, passing near Miami before emerging into the western Atlantic Ocean.
The Miami National Weather Service office recorded a wind gust of 68 mph (110 km/h), as well as sustained tropical storm force winds for about four hours; the station also recorded a barometric pressure of 1004 mbar (29.66 inHg).

The hurricane season officially began on June 15, when the United States Weather Bureau in Miami, Florida began 24 hour operations.
The agency, under the direction of Grady Norton had access to 43 other weather stations across the Atlantic basin.
Norton died during the season from a stroke while tracking Hurricane Hazel.
Additionally, a group of Hurricane Hunters planes were put on standby for the season, able to be flown out into storms and collect data.
During the season, there were eight named storms, as well as an unnamed hurricane and a tropical depression.
The season officially ended on November 15, although an unnamed tropical storm formed a day later.
In addition, Tropical Storm Alice developed on December 31, the latest a tropical cyclone has developed in the calendar year.

The storm produced significant rainfall in a  region of Florida.
The highest total in the state was  in Kissimmee.
There, the rains caused flash flooding that entered over 200 houses.
The flooding flooded three state highways, and also left portions of Okeechobee inaccessible after reporting the heaviest rainfall in eight years.
Large tomato fields were inundated, resulting in some crop damage.
In portions of the state, the rains were beneficial due to previously dry conditions.
The storm spawned a tornado in North Miami that injured one person.
Damage throughout Florida was estimated at $3 million, mostly in the Kissimmee area.
In addition, two surfers drowned during the storm.
Precipitation extended as far north as New Jersey, and coastal areas experienced high tides and gusty winds.

A low pressure area formed along a dissipating cold front to the north of Puerto Rico.
The system moved westward, developing some tropical characteristics by October 13.
The next day, the storm moved over Cuba before turning to the north.
On October 15, it crossed over southeastern Florida near Miami.
The storm was never fully tropical, as its winds and precipitation extended far away from the center.
It produced sustained winds of  with gusts to .
After affecting Florida, the storm crossed the western Atlantic and moved across the Outer Banks.
The storm became extratropical on October 18 offshore Virginia, and the next day it was absorbed by another extratropical storm.

The season officially began on June 15, the date that the Weather Bureau office in Miami, Florida, under the direction of Gordon Dunn, began daily monitoring of all tropical disturbances and cyclones across the northern Atlantic Ocean.
The agency had access to the Hurricane Hunters, a fleet of aircraft that obtain data by flying into storms.
The Weather Bureau, in collaboration with other agencies, began a five&ndash;year project in 1956 to obtain and analyze data on the structure of hurricanes.
The season officially ended on November 15.

The hurricane caused 33 deaths and considerable damage as an extratropical cyclone.
It also caused $1,656,000 (1959 USD) in damage in Florida, most of which came from a single tornado in Miami.

In its early stages, the storm dropped moderately heavy rainfall in Florida, which caused damage to crops.
A tornado near Miami and high tides on the west coast of the state also resulted in damage.
Overall, losses in Florida were slightly more than $1.5 million (1959 USD).
After becoming extratropical, the storm caused significant effects in Atlantic Canada.
Rough seas damaged or destroyed numerous fishing boats and caused 35 fatalities.
High winds also disrupted communications in some areas.

By September 26, Florence made landfall near the Alabama-Florida border and dissipated over Mississippi on the following day.
On Grand Bahama,  of rain fell in only 6 hours.
No impact was reported in Cuba.
The storm dropped rainfall across Florida, though the heavier amounts were mainly on the Atlantic coast.
Precipitation peaked at  near Fellsmere, while rainfall reached  in some areas of the Miami metropolitan area.
Although Florence was a depression at landfall, sustained winds between  were recorded in Ocean Ridge, while a gust as high as  was reported in Vero Beach.
In Jacksonville, a pressure gradient combined with Florida to produce tides of  about normal.

A tropical wave strengthened into a depression on August 20, and was named Tropical Storm Cleo soon after.
Cleo moved quickly to the west and strengthened into a Category 4 storm by the time it churned through the Lesser Antilles.
The hurricane remained a Category 4 as it passed into the Caribbean, and moved just to the south of Hispaniola on August 24, and then veered more to the north which brought a landfall on the tip of Haiti.
The storm then turned to the north and weakened to a Category 1 before it struck Cuba, but remained a hurricane the whole time over land.
Cleo then brushed against Miami and the east coast of Florida as it weakened from a Category 2 hurricane to a tropical storm.
Cleo killed a total of 217 people and caused serious property damage as it travelled through the Caribbean Sea and into Florida, totaling $198 million (1964 USD, $  USD) in damage.

Alma made landfall near Cedar Key, Florida on May 25 as a tropical depression, and became extratropical two days later over North Carolina.
Although Alma passed just offshore, impact in Central America, if any, is unknown.
In the Cayman Islands, winds of 65 mph (105 km/h) was reported.
Impact was severest in Cuba, where flash flooding caused seven fatalities, destroyed several homes, forced the evacuation of 3,000 people in Oriente Province, and resulted in a shutdown of 16 sugar mills.
The storm brought light rainfall to Florida, peaking at  near Miami.
Hazardous thunderstorms caused one death in Miami and damaged some roofs and building in Fort Myers.
In other states, impact was mostly in the form of rain, though a tornado near Columbia, South Carolina destroyed a roof.

In addition to the eight named storms of 1973 and two notable tropical depressions, there were several minor systems that were classified as depressions by the National Hurricane Center.
The first four systems of the year were not classified as fully tropical, rather they were associated with the remnants of decaying cold fronts.
On April 18, the first of these depressions formed northeast of the Bahamas and tracked in a curved motion before dissipating over open water on April 21.
Several days later, on April 24, another depression formed in the same general region; however, this system was shorter lived and dissipated two days later without significant movement.
On May 2, another partially tropical system formed over open waters.
The cyclone tracked northeast and dissipated late on May 5 east-southeast of the Azores.
On May 11, a brief depression formed near Bermuda but dissipated the following day.
Roughly a week into the official hurricane season, the fifth depression of the year formed just offshore southeast Florida, near Miami.
The system tracked northwest across the peninsula and briefly entered the Gulf of Mexico on June 8 before making landfall along the Florida Panhandle.
The depression eventually dissipate on June 10 over South Carolina.

A broad area of low pressure organized into a tropical depression off the coast of Nicaragua on October 9.
After drifting to the southeast, it turned to the north-northwest and organized into a tropical storm on October 10.
Subsequent to crossing western Cuba, Floyd accelerated to the northeast, and attained hurricane status late on October 12.
It passed through the Florida Keys before entraining cooler, drier air from a stationary frontal boundary.
Its convection became very disorganized, and Floyd weakened back to a tropical storm early on October 13 to the southeast of Miami; the storm crossed the Bahamas, and becoming an extratropical cyclone before being absorbed by the frontal boundary on October 14.

In the Bahamas, Andrew brought high tides, hurricane force winds, and tornadoes, which caused significant damage in the archipelago, especially on Cat Cays.
At least 800 houses were destroyed and left damage to the transport, communications, water, sanitation, agriculture, and fishing sectors.
Overall, Andrew caused four fatalities and $250 million (1992 USD) in damage in the Bahamas.
Throughout the southern portions of Florida, Andrew brought very high winds; a wind gust of 177 mph (282 km/h) was reported at a house in Perrine, Florida.
High winds caused catastrophic damage in Florida, especially in Miami-Dade County, where approximately 117,000 houses were either severely damaged or destroyed.
In the Everglades, 70,000 acres (280 km2) of trees were knocked down and about 182 million fish were killed.
Rainfall in Florida was moderate, peaking at  in western Miami-Dade County.
Significant damage to oil platforms was reported, with one company losing 13 platforms, had 104 structures damaged, and five drilling wells blown off course.
In Louisiana, Andrew produced hurricane force winds along its path, which left about 152,000 without electricity, downed 80% of trees in the Atchafalaya River Basin, and caused significant agricultural damage.
An F3 tornado in St. John the Baptist Parish damaged or destroyed 163 structures.
17 fatalities were reported in Louisiana, six of which were drowning victims offshore.
Elsewhere, the storm spawned at least 28 tornadoes, especially in Alabama, Georgia, and Mississippi.
Overall, Andrew caused 65 fatalities and $26 billion (1992 USD) in damage, making it the third costliest hurricane in U.S. history, behind only Hurricane Katrina in 2005 and Hurricane Ike in 2008.

Following Calvin's closest approach, the Mexican Weather Service station in Manzanillo recorded a minimum barometric pressure of, as well as  surface winds as the center of Calvin passed a little to the west.
The Instituto Oceanografico del Pacifico in Manzanillo reported a minimum central pressure of .
Only two other reports of tropical storm force winds were reported on the Mexican mainland, besides Manzanillo, were reported in associated with Calvin.
In Calimo, sustained winds of  were observed at 1300 UTC.
Shortly thereafter, near 1545 UTC, sustained winds of  with gusts up to  were reported in the same location.
Several ships reported rough weather during Calvin's existence, with the "Pacific Sandpiper" reporting a maximum wave height of .
In Acapulco, it is reported that waves in excess of  moved through the city.
In several states, heavy rainfall between  to  inches was recorded.
However, in Las Pilas, the highest rainfall total was observed, at .
According to "The Miami Herald" and the "West Hawaii Today", Calvin is blamed for the death of 34 deaths, which includes both direct and indirect.
Most of the fatalities came from heavy rainfall associated with the system.
A state of emergency was declared in at least ten states in Mexico following Calvin's passage, and the Mexican Defense Department said that 42,063 people were evacuated in eleven states.
Additionally, at least 1,600 people were left homeless.
Finally, rough seas near Lazaro Cardenas caused all 4,000 tons of sulfuric acid to leak aboard the previously beached cargo tanker, "Betula".

While hurricanes are often seen as the biggest weather threat to Miami, tornadoes are relatively common in South Florida, although the vast majority of the tornadoes that strike Miami-Dade County are small, relatively weak F0 or F1 tornadoes.
Most of these tornadoes form as either waterspouts off Biscayne Bay, as part of the frequent afternoon thunderstorms, or spawned from a tropical storm or hurricane.
Tornadoes can and have occurred in every month of the year in Miami-Dade County.

The tornado formed in the afternoon (around 2:00 PM), initially touching down in the Silver Bluff Estates area.
It then swept through Downtown, bypassing the city's skyscrapers.
It then crossed the MacArthur Causeway and the Venetian Causeway, towards Miami Beach, sideswiping a cruise ship.
The tornado lifted from the water halfway through Biscayne Bay and touched down briefly again in Miami Beach, flipping over a car and then dissipating.
The Storm Prediction Center in Oklahoma had predicted tornadoes in the area and warned that there might be more to come.

