0 san+francisco As seen in the 1700 quake, the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake, and the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake, subduction zone earthquakes can cause large tsunamis, and many coastal areas in the region have prepared tsunami evacuation plans in anticipation of a possible future Cascadia earthquake. As seen in the  quake, the    earthquake, and the  Tōhoku earthquake, subduction zone earthquakes can cause large tsunamis, and many coastal areas in the region have prepared tsunami evacuation plans in anticipation of a possible   earthquake.
1 san+francisco However, the major nearby cities, notably Seattle, Portland, Vancouver, Victoria, and Tacoma, which are located on inland waterways rather than on the coast, would be sheltered from the full brunt of a tsunami. However, the major nearby cities, notably , , , , and , which are located on inland waterways rather than on the coast, would be sheltered from the full brunt of a tsunami.
2 san+francisco These cities do have many vulnerable structures, especially bridges and unreinforced brick buildings; consequently, most of the damage to the cities would probably be from the earthquake itself. These cities do have many vulnerable structures, especially bridges and unreinforced brick buildings; consequently, most of the damage to the cities would probably be from the earthquake itself.
3 san+francisco One expert asserts that buildings in Seattle are vastly inadequate even to withstand an earthquake of the size of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake, much less the much greater one that may well occur. expert asserts that buildings in  are vastly inadequate even to withstand an earthquake of the size of the    earthquake, much less the much greater  that may well occur.
4 san+francisco The quake ruptured a substantial portion of the southern San Andreas, but not the entire length. The quake ruptured a substantial portion of the southern  , but not the entire length.
5 san+francisco Thomas Jordan, director of the Southern California Earthquake Center, stated that the slip likely stopped in the area near Cajon Pass, perhaps because the tectonic stresses on that part of the fault had been released several decades earlier during the 1812 Wrightwood earthquake. , director of     , stated that  slip likely stopped in  area near  , perhaps because  tectonic stresses on that part of  fault had been released        earthquake.
6 san+francisco The average slip along the fault was 4.5 meters (15 feet), and a maximum offset of 9 meters (30 feet) was recorded in the Carrizo Plain area in southeastern San Luis Obispo County. The average slip along the fault was  meters ( feet), and a maximum offset of  meters ( feet) was recorded in the   area in southeastern    .
7 san+francisco The amount of fault slip gives this earthquake a moment magnitude of 7.9, comparable to that of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. The amount of fault slip gives this earthquake a moment magnitude of , comparable to that of the    earthquake.
8 san+francisco The extreme southernmost portion of the fault, which terminates near Bombay Beach at the Salton Sea, last ruptured in 1680. The extreme southernmost portion of the fault, which terminates near   at the  , last ruptured in .
9 san+francisco The earthquake occurred at 7:53 a.m. on October 21, 1868. The earthquake occurred at 7:53 a.m. on   .
10 san+francisco Its epicenter was likely located near Hayward, California, and its magnitude has been estimated to have been 6.8&ndash;7.0 on the Richter scale. Its epicenter was likely located near , , and its magnitude has been estimated to have been &ndash; on the  scale.
11 san+francisco At the surface, ground rupture was traced for 20 miles, from San Leandro to what is now the Warm Springs District in Fremont. At the surface, ground rupture was traced for  miles, from   to what is  the Warm  District in Fremont.
12 san+francisco The USGS estimates that Hayward experienced shaking measuring IX on the modified Mercalli scale. The  estimates that  experienced shaking measuring  on the modified  scale.
13 san+francisco San Leandro experienced shaking measuring VIII, while San Francisco and Oakland experienced shaking measuring VII. experienced shaking measuring VIII, while   and  experienced shaking measuring VII.
14 san+francisco The town of Hayward experienced the most damage, with nearly every building destroyed or significantly damaged in the earthquake. The town of  experienced the most damage, with nearly every building destroyed or significantly damaged in the earthquake.
15 san+francisco The Alameda County Courthouse in San Leandro was destroyed, which resulted in the re-location of the County Seat to Oakland, its current site. The    in   was destroyed, which resulted in the re-location of the   to , its  site.
16 san+francisco The adobe chapel of Mission San José in what is now Fremont was also destroyed, as were several buildings in San Jose, San Francisco and throughout Alameda County. The adobe chapel of Mission   in what is  Fremont was also destroyed, as were several buildings in  ,   and throughout  .
17 san+francisco Damage was reported from Santa Rosa in the north to Gilroy and Santa Cruz in the south. Damage was reported from   in the north to  and   in the south.
18 san+francisco Thirty deaths were attributed to the earthquake. deaths were attributed to the earthquake.
19 san+francisco The "1868 Hayward earthquake" was the last large earthquake to occur on the Hayward Fault Zone in the San Francisco Bay Area, California, United States. The "  earthquake" was the last large earthquake to occur on the    in the    , ,  .
20 san+francisco It caused significant damage throughout the region, and was known as the "Great San Francisco Earthquake" prior to the 1906 San Francisco earthquake and fire. It caused significant damage throughout the region, and was known as the "Great   Earthquake" prior to the    earthquake and fire.
21 san+francisco The "Great Lone Pine earthquake" was one of the largest earthquakes to hit California in recorded history. The "Great L Pine earthquake" was  of the largest earthquakes to hit  in recorded history.
22 san+francisco The quake struck on March 26, 1872 and its epicenter was near Lone Pine, California in Owens Valley. The quake struck on    and its epicenter was near    in  .
23 san+francisco The true size of this earthquake is not known, but historical evidence detailing the damage it caused in settlements and landforms near the epicenter, and the geographic extent to which noticeable movement was felt, leads researchers to estimate a Richter magnitude of 7.6 to 8 or greater &mdash; similar in size to the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. The true size of this earthquake is not known, but historical evidence detailing the damage it caused in settlements and landforms near the epicenter, and the geographic extent to which noticeable movement was felt, leads researchers to estimate a Richter magnitude of  to  or greater &mdash; similar in size to the    earthquake.
24 san+francisco Dalessandro grants his book was partially inspired by a 1989 non-fiction work by Gladys Hansen, curator of the Museum of the City of San Francisco. grants his book was partially inspired by a  non-fiction work by  , curator of the Museum of the City of  .
25 san+francisco When looking for research materials in 1996, he found "Denial of Disaster: The Untold Story and Photographs of the San Francisco Earthquake and Fire of 1906" in a bookstore. When looking for research materials in , he found "Denial of Disaster: The Untold Story and Photographs of the    and Fire of " in a bookstore.
26 san+francisco He also explained use of meticulous personal research. He also explained use of meticulous personal research.
27 san+francisco Book scenes with people lying in shock in Golden Gate Park after the quake while surrounded by their possessions was inspired by fact. Book scenes with people lying in shock in Golden Gate Park after the quake while surrounded by their possessions was inspired by fact.
28 san+francisco Enrico Caruso was found wandering in the park, having slept the night there after the Palace Hotel was destroyed. was found wandering in the park, having slept the night there after the Palace Hotel was destroyed.
29 san+francisco Dalessandro granted a lot of research but use of imagination as well. granted a lot of research but use of imagination as well.
30 san+francisco The novel's depictions were pieced together from letters and observations. The novel's depictions were pieced together from letters and observations.
31 san+francisco In reflecting on how some persons took bathtubs out of their damaged homes, placed them on roller skates, and then filed the tubs with possessions, he noted that the displaced persons would save what was valuable to them... their favorite skillet, grandfather clocks, and pets. In reflecting on how some persons took bathtubs out of their damaged homes, placed them on roller skates, and then filed the tubs with possessions, he noted that the displaced persons would save what was valuable to them... their favorite skillet, grandfather clocks, and pets.
32 san+francisco When asked to describe 1906 San Francisco, Dalessandro offered that it was "Paris and part Dodge City", expanding that at the time the city "was urbane and sophisticated" while at the same time being The Barbary Coast and fistfights. When asked to describe   ,  offered that it was " and part  ", expanding that at the time the city "was urbane and sophisticated" while at the same time being The Barbary Coast and fistfights.
33 san+francisco In handling the then-existing corruption and  investigations in San Francisco, he condensed actual situations that had developed over many months into a shorter timespan and with a changing of names. In handling the then-existing corruption and  investigations in  , he condensed actual situations that had developed over many  into a shorter timespan and with a changing of names.
34 san+francisco Dalessandro also notes that his researches found the claimed death toll of 478 persons killed by the quake and fire, held as an official count for over 100 years, to be inaccurate. also notes that his researches found the claimed death toll of  persons killed by the quake and fire, held as an official count for over  , to be inaccurate.
35 san+francisco In 2005 the San Francisco Board of Supervisors granted a petition from he and Hansen, and raised the count to over 3,000. In  the      granted a petition from he and , and raised the count to over .
36 san+francisco The Japanese colonial authorities in Taipei sent teams of medical personnel to assist, and Campbell reported that shortly after the earthquake reconstruction efforts were well advanced. The  colonial authorities in  sent teams of medical personnel to assist, and  reported that shortly after the earthquake reconstruction efforts were well advanced.
37 san+francisco At the time some writers suggested a link between the Meishan quake and the great 1906 San Francisco earthquake, which occurred a month later, while some religious groups linked it not only with the San Francisco disaster, but also an earlier earthquake in Cambria, Italy and other natural disasters as a sign of the end-times. At the time some writers suggested  link between the  quke nd the gret    erthquke, which occurred   lter, while some religious groups linked it not only with the   disster, but lso n erlier erthquke in Cmbri, Itly nd other nturl dissters s  sign of the end-times.
38 san+francisco The earthquake and fire would leave a long-standing and significant impression on the development of California. The earthquake and fire would leave a long-standing and significant impression on the development of .
39 san+francisco At the time of the disaster, San Francisco had been the ninth-largest city in the United States and the largest on the West Coast, with a population of about 410,000. At the time of the disaster,   had been the ninth-largest city in the   and the largest on the  , with a population of about .
40 san+francisco Over a period of 60 years, the city had become the financial, trade and cultural center of the West; operated the busiest port on the West Coast; and was the "gateway to the Pacific", through which growing US economic and military power was projected into the Pacific and Asia. Over a period of  , the city had become the financial, trade and cultural center of the ; operated the busiest port on the  ; and was the "gateway to the ", through which growing  economic and military power was projected into the  and .
41 san+francisco Over 80% of the city was destroyed by the earthquake and fire. Over 80% of the city was destroyed by the earthquake and fire.
42 san+francisco Though San Francisco would rebuild quickly, the disaster would divert trade, industry and population growth south to Los Angeles, which during the 20th century would become the largest and most important urban area in the West. Though   would rebuild quickly,  disaster would divert trade, industry and population growth south to  , which during    would become  largest and most important urban area in  West.
43 san+francisco In addition, many of the city's leading poets and writers retreated to Carmel-by-the-Sea where, as "The Barness", they established the arts colony reputation that continues today. In addition, many of the city's leading poets and writers retreated to  where, as "The Barness", they established the arts colony reputation that continues .
44 san+francisco The 1908 Lawson Report, a study of the 1906 quake led and edited by Professor Andrew Lawson of the University of California, showed that the very same San Andreas Fault which had caused the disaster in San Francisco ran close to Los Angeles as well. The   Report, a study  the  quake led and edited by Pressor    the   , showed that the very same  Andreas Fault which had caused the disaster in   ran close to   as well.
45 san+francisco The earthquake was the first natural disaster of its magnitude to be documented by photography and motion picture footage. The earthquake was the  natural disaster of its magnitude to be documented by photography and motion picture footage.
46 san+francisco Moreover, it occurred at a time when the science of seismology was blossoming. Moreover, it occurred at a time when the science of seismology was blossoming.
47 san+francisco The overall cost of the damage from the earthquake was estimated at the time to be around US$400 million ($8.2 billion in 2009 dollars). The overall cost of the damage from the earthquake was estimated at the time to be around US$400 million ($8.2 billion in  dollars).
48 san+francisco Although the impact of the earthquake on San Francisco was the most famous, the earthquake also inflicted considerable damage on several other cities. Although the impact of the earthquake on   was the most famous, the earthquake also inflicted considerable damage on several other cities.
49 san+francisco These include San Jose and Santa Rosa, the entire downtown of which was essentially destroyed. These include   and ta , the entire downtown of which was essentially destroyed.
50 san+francisco A strong foreshock preceded the mainshock by about 20 to 25 seconds. A strong foreshock preceded the mainshock by     .
51 san+francisco The strong shaking of the main shock lasted about 42 seconds. The strong shaking of the main shock lasted   .
52 san+francisco The shaking intensity as described on the Modified Mercalli intensity scale reached VIII in San Francisco and up to IX in areas to the north like Santa Rosa where destruction was devastating. The shaking intensity as described on the   intensity scale reached  in   and up to  in areas to the north like ta  where destruction was devastating.
53 san+francisco There were decades of minor earthquakes – more than at any other time in the historical record for northern California – before the 1906 quake. There were  of minor earthquakes – more than at any other time in the historical record for northern  – before the  quake.
54 san+francisco Widely interpreted previously as precursory activity to the 1906 earthquake, they have been found to have a strong seasonal pattern and have been postulated to be due to large seasonal sediment loads in coastal bays that overlie faults as a result of the erosion caused by "hydraulic mining" in the later years of the California Gold Rush. Widely interpreted  as precursory activity to   earthquake, y have been found to have a strong seasonal pattern and have been postulated to be due to large seasonal sediment loads in coastal bays that overlie faults as a result of  erosion caused by "hydraulic mining" in    of   Gold Rush.
55 san+francisco Due to a widespread practice by insurers to indemnify San Francisco properties from fire, but not earthquake damage, most of the destruction in the city was blamed on the fires. Due to a widespread practice by insurers to indemnify   properties from fire, but not earthquake damage, most of the destruction in the city was blamed on the fires.
56 san+francisco Some property owners deliberately set fire to damaged properties, in order to claim them on their insurance. Some property owners deliberately set fire to damaged properties, in order to claim them on their insurance.
57 san+francisco Capt. Capt.
58 san+francisco Leonard D. Wildman of the U.S. Army Signal Corps reported that he "was stopped by a fireman who told me that people in that neighborhood were firing their houses… they were told that they would not get their insurance on buildings damaged by the earthquake unless they were damaged by fire." of the     reported that he "was stopped by a fireman who told me that people in that neighborhood were firing their houses… they were told that they would not get their insurance on buildings damaged by the earthquake unless they were damaged by fire."
59 san+francisco As water mains were also broken, the city fire department had few resources with which to fight the fires. As water mains were also broken, the city fire department had few resources with which to fight the fires.
60 san+francisco Several fires in the downtown area merged to become one giant inferno. Several fires in the downtown area merged to become  giant inferno.
61 san+francisco Brigadier General Frederick Funston, commander of the Presidio of San Francisco and a resident of San Francisco, tried to bring the fire under control by detonating blocks of buildings around the fire to create firebreaks with all sorts of means, ranging from black powder and dynamite to even artillery barrages. Brigadier General  , commander of the Presidio of   and a resident of  , tried to bring the fire under control by detonating blocks of buildings around the fire to create firebreaks with all sorts of means, ranging from black powder and dynamite to even artillery barrages.
62 san+francisco Often the explosions set the ruins on fire or helped spread it. Often the explosions set the ruins on fire or helped spread it.
63 san+francisco Property losses from the disaster have been estimated to be more than $400 million. Property losses from the disaster have been estimated to be more than $400 million.
64 san+francisco An insurance industry source tallies insured losses at $235 million (equivalent to $ in  dollars). An insurance industry source tallies insured losses at $235 million (equivalent to $ in  dollars).
65 san+francisco Political and business leaders strongly downplayed the effects of the earthquake, fearing loss of outside investment in the city which was badly needed to rebuild. Political and business leaders strongly downplayed the effects of the earthquake, fearing loss of outside investment in the city which was badly needed to rebuild.
66 san+francisco In his first public statement, California governor George C. Pardee emphasized the need to rebuild quickly: "This is not the first time that San Francisco has been destroyed by fire, I have not the slightest doubt that the City by the Golden Gate will be speedily rebuilt, and will, almost before we know it, resume her former great activity." In his  public statement,  governor    emphasized the need to rebuild quickly: "This is not the  time that   has been destroyed by fire, I have not the slightest doubt that the City by the   will be speedily rebuilt, and will, almost before we know it, resume her former great activity."
67 san+francisco The earthquake itself is not even mentioned in the statement. The earthquake itself is not even mentioned in the statement.
68 san+francisco Fatality and monetary damage estimates were manipulated. Fatality and monetary damage estimates were manipulated.
69 san+francisco In the rush to rebuild the city, building standards were first made much more stringent, but after about a year, they were in fact relaxed, instead of strengthened, "by upwards of 50%" according to historian Robert Hansen. In the rush to rebuild the city, building stndrds were  mde much more stringent, but fter   yer, they were in fct relxed, insted of strengthened, "by upwrds of 50%" ccording to historin  Hnsen.
70 san+francisco The History Channel International series "Mega Disasters" attributes the rollback of the strict codes to complaints by contractors under duress from city fathers for the slow rate of reconstruction. The History Channel International series "Mega Disasters" attributes the rollback of the strict codes to complaints by contractors under duress from city fathers for the slow rate of reconstruction.
71 san+francisco In the report, the building codes were taken back off the books in only 13 months, while the official death toll was placed at a mere 379—which estimates raised plenty of eyebrows even at the time, as it was undoubtedly the most photographed disaster then known to mankind, and the damage suggests far more would have been trapped as is backed by anecdotal stories of many being trapped in fallen buildings then consumed by flames. In the report, the building codes were taken back off the books in only  , while the official death toll was placed at a mere —which estimates raised plenty of eyebrows even at the time, as it was undoubtedly the most photographed disaster then known to mankind, and the damage suggests far more would have been trapped as is backed by anecdotal stories of many being trapped in fallen buildings then consumed by flames.
72 san+francisco For over forty years now, research by a San Francisco librarian has amassed a death toll well in excess of three thousand, and she has opined the effort will go on for years more. For over   , research by a   librarian has amassed a death toll well in excess of  , and she has opined the effort will go on for  more.
73 san+francisco Part of the rush to rebuild was the desire to be ready for the Panama-Pacific International Exposition set to be hosted in 1915, and indeed by that year there was almost no visible damage to be seen in the city. Part of the rush to rebuild was the desire to be ready for the    set to be hosted in , and indeed by that  there was almost no visible damage to be seen in the city.
74 san+francisco This general disregard for earthquake safety still has effects for the city today, as a majority of buildings now standing in the city were built in the first half of the 20th century to the lax codes. This general disregard for earthquake safety still has effects for  city , as a majority  buildings  standing in  city were built in        to  lax codes.
75 san+francisco Building standards did not reach even 1906 levels until the 1950s. Building standards did not reach even  levels until  .
76 san+francisco A detailed analysis of the city today estimates that an earthquake less powerful than the 1906 quake would completely destroy many sections of the city and result in thousands of deaths. A detailed analysis of the city  estimates that an earthquake less powerful than the  quake would completely destroy many sections of the city and result in thousands of deaths.
77 san+francisco At the time, 375 deaths were reported. At the time,  deaths were reported.
78 san+francisco However, that figure was fabricated by government officials who felt that reporting the true death toll would hurt real estate prices and efforts to rebuild the city. However, that figure was fabricated by government officials who felt that reporting the true death toll would hurt real estate prices and efforts to rebuild the city.
79 san+francisco In addition, hundreds of casualties in Chinatown went ignored and unrecorded; that number is still uncertain today, estimated to be roughly 3,000 at minimum. In addition, hundreds of casualties in  went ignored and unrecorded; that number is still uncertain , estimated to be roughly  at minimum.
80 san+francisco Most of the deaths occurred in San Francisco itself, but 189 were reported elsewhere in the Bay Area; nearby cities, such as Santa Rosa and San Jose also suffered severe damages. Most of the deaths occurred in   itself, but  were reported elsewhere in the  ; nearby cities, such as ta  and   also suffered severe damages.
81 san+francisco In Monterey County, the earthquake permanently shifted the course of the Salinas River near its mouth. In  , the earthquake permanently shifted the course of the   near its mouth.
82 san+francisco Where previously the river emptied into Monterey Bay between Moss Landing and Watsonville, it was diverted 6 miles south to a new outlet just north of Marina. Where  the river emptied into   between   and , it was diverted  miles south to a new outlet just north of .
83 san+francisco The "San Francisco earthquake of 1906" was a major earthquake that struck San Francisco and the coast of Northern California at 5:12 a.m. on Wednesday, April 18, 1906. The "  earthquake of " was a major earthquake that struck   and the coast of   at 5:12 a.m. on    .
84 san+francisco Devastating fires broke out in the city and lasted for several days. Devastating fires broke out in the city and lasted for  .
85 san+francisco As a result of the quake and fires, about 3,000 people died and over 80% of San Francisco was destroyed. As a result of the quake and fires, about  people died and over 80% of   was destroyed.
86 san+francisco For a number of years, the epicenter of the quake was assumed to be near the town of Olema, in the Point Reyes area of Marin County, because of evidence of the degree of local earth displacement. For a number of , the epicenter of the quake was assumed to be near the town of , in the Point Reyes area of  , because of evidence of the degree of local earth displacement.
87 san+francisco In the 1960s, a seismologist at UC Berkeley proposed that the epicenter was more likely offshore of San Francisco, to the northwest of the Golden Gate. In  , a seismologist at UC  proposed that  epicenter was more likely offshore of  , to  northwest of  Golden Gate.
88 san+francisco However, the most recent analysis by the United States Geological Survey (USGS) shows that the most likely epicenter was very near Mussel Rock on the coast of Daly City, an adjacent suburb just south of San Francisco. However, the most recent analysis by the     () shows that the most likely epicenter was very near   on the coast of  , an adjacent suburb just south of  .
89 san+francisco An offshore epicenter is supported by the occurrence of a local tsunami recorded by a tidal gauge at the San Francisco Presidio; the wave had an amplitude of approximately 3 in (8 cm) and an approximate period of 40–45 minutes. An offshore epicenter is supported by the occurrence of a local tsunami recorded by a tidal gauge at the   ; the wave had an amplitude of approximately  in ( cm) and an approximate period of – .
90 san+francisco The earthquake was the worst single incident for the insurance industry before the September 11, 2001, attacks, and the largest U.S. relief effort ever to this day, including even Hurricane Katrina. The earthquake was the worst single incident for the insurance industry before the    attacks and the largest  relief effort ever to   including even Hurricane Katrina.
91 san+francisco After the 1906 earthquake, a global discussion arose concerning a legally flawless exclusion of the earthquake hazard from fire insurance contracts. After the  earthquake, a global discussion arose concerning a legally flawless exclusion of the earthquake hazard from fire insurance contracts.
92 san+francisco It was pressed ahead mainly by re-insurers. It was pressed ahead mainly by re-insurers.
93 san+francisco Their aim was the globally uniform solution of the problem of earthquake hazard in fire insurance contracts. Their aim was the globally uniform solution of the problem of earthquake hazard in fire insurance contracts.
94 san+francisco Until 1910, a few countries, especially in Europe, followed the call for an exclusion of the earthquake hazard from all fire insurance contracts. Until , a few countries, especially in , followed the call for an exclusion of the earthquake hazard from all fire insurance contracts.
95 san+francisco In the U.S., however, the question was discussed differently. In the , however, the question was discussed differently.
96 san+francisco But the traumatized public reacted with fierce opposition. But the traumatized public reacted with fierce opposition.
97 san+francisco On August 1, 1909, the California Senate enacted the California Standard Form of Fire Insurance Policy, which did not contain any earthquake clause. On   909 the   enacted the        which did not contain any earthquake clause.
98 san+francisco Thus the state decided that insurers would have to pay again if another earthquake was followed by fires. Thus the state decided that insurers would have to pay again if another earthquake was followed by fires.
99 san+francisco Other earthquake-endangered countries followed the California example. Other earthquake-endangered countries followed the  example.
100 san+francisco The insurance payments heavily affected the international financial system. The insurance payments heavily affected the international financial system.
101 san+francisco Gold transfers from European insurance companies to policyholders in San Francisco led to a rise in interest rates, subsequently to a lack of available loans and finally to the Knickerbocker Trust Company crisis of October 1907 which led to the Panic of 1907. Gold transfers from  insurance companies to policyholders in   led to a rise in interest rates, subsequently to a lack of available loans and finally to the    crisis of   which led to the Panic of .
102 san+francisco At 9.45am on 27 June, 1906, a powerful earth tremor was felt across much of South Wales, its epicentre being placed just offshore of Port Talbot. At am on    a powerful earth tremor was felt across much of   its epicentre being placed just offshore of  .
103 san+francisco The quake, which struck just a few weeks after the devastating 1906 San Francisco earthquake, was felt as far afield as Ilfracombe, Birmingham and southwest Ireland. The quke, which struck just    fter the devstting  Sn Frncisco erthquke, ws felt s fr field s Ilfrcombe, Birminghm nd  Irelnd.
104 san+francisco Andrew Goodlife, professor of geological sciences at the University of Alabama believes Alabama is at "high" risk from earthquakes. , pressor  geological sciences at the    believes  is at "high" risk from earthquakes.
105 san+francisco He also claims that "If there is an earthquake in one of the zone areas, North Alabama is certainly going to feel it. He also claims that "If there is an earthquake in  of the z areas,   is certainly going to feel it.
106 san+francisco There's going to be damage and some perhaps major. There's going to be damage and some perhaps major.
107 san+francisco If one occurred in the zone close to Memphis, it would be devastating because buildings are not made to withstand earthquakes. If  occurred in the z close to , it would be devastating because buildings are not made to withstand earthquakes.
108 san+francisco Places like San Francisco are aware of earthquake risks and structures are built to withstand them." Places like   are aware of earthquake risks and structures are built to withstand them."
109 san+francisco In his definition, the state's earthquakes are "insignificant". In his definition, the state's earthquakes are "insignificant".
110 san+francisco Emergency planner Bill Thomison is skeptical of a major earthquake, stating that "I don't believe there are any major faults (interface of rocks) here. Emergency planner   is skeptical of a major earthquake, stating that "I don't believe there are any major faults (interface of rocks) here.
111 san+francisco It depends on the magnitude of the earthquake and the Richter scale. It depends on the magnitude of the earthquake and the  scale.
112 san+francisco You could have a No. 4 (magnitude) earthquake in California and not damage anything, but the same type in New York could be devastating because the building codes don't factor in earthquakes." You could have a No.  (magnitude) earthquake in  and not damage anything, but the same type in   could be devastating because the building codes don't factor in earthquakes."
113 san+francisco Although the exact cause was never determined, the fire began in the undeveloped chaparral and grasslands of Wildcat Canyon, just east of the ridgeline of the Berkeley Hills, and was propelled over the ridge and southwestward just south of Codornices Creek by a strong, gusty, and intensely dry northeasterly wind. Although the exact cause was never determined, the fire began in the undeveloped chaparral and grasslands of  , just east of the ridgeline of the  , and was propelled over the ridge and southwestward just south of   by a strong, gusty, and intensely dry northeasterly wind.
114 san+francisco The fire quickly blew up as it swept through the La Loma Park and Northside neighborhoods of Berkeley, overwhelming the capabilities of the Berkeley Fire Department to stop it. The fire quickly blew up as it swept through the    and  neighborhoods of , overwhelming the capabilities of the    to stop it.
115 san+francisco A number of UC students fought the advance of the fire as it approached the north edge of the University of California campus at Hearst Avenue. A number  UC students fought the advance  the fire as it approached the north edge  the    campus at  .
116 san+francisco The other edge of the fire was fought by firefighters as it advanced on downtown Berkeley along the east side of Shattuck Avenue north of University Avenue. The other edge of the fire was fought by firefighters as it advanced on downtown  along the east side of Shattuck Avenue north of University Avenue.
117 san+francisco Firefighters were rushed in from neighboring Oakland while San Francisco sent firefighters by ferry across the bay. Firefighters were rushed in from neighboring  while   sent firefighters by ferry across the bay.
118 san+francisco The fire was halted when the gusty northeast wind was suddenly stopped by the cool, humid afternoon seabreeze. The fire was halted when the gusty northeast wind was suddenly stopped by the cool, humid afternoon seabreeze.
119 san+francisco The Southern Pacific Company Railroad tracks were damaged in a number of places between Ventura,  (mile 598 as measured from San Francisco)  and Gaviota (mile 331). The     tracks were damaged in a number of places between ,  (mile  as measured from  )  and  (mile ).
120 san+francisco In particular, a portion between Naples and Santa Barbara was badly damaged and displaced. In particular, a portion between  and   was badly damaged and displaced.
121 san+francisco Seaside bluffs fell into the ocean and a slight tidal wave was noted by offshore ships. Seaside bluffs fell into the ocean and a slight tidal wave was noted by offshore ships.
122 san+francisco The town was completely cut off from telephone and telegraph, news from the outside world arrived by shortwave radio. The town was completely cut off from telephone and telegraph, news from the outside world arrived by shortwave radio.
123 san+francisco The absence of post earthquake fire permitted scientists and geologists to study earthquake damages on various types of construction. The absence of post earthquake fire permitted scientists and geologists to study earthquake damages on various types of construction.
124 san+francisco The "1938 Yosemite TWA crash" was the crash and disappearance of a Transcontinental & Western Air Douglas DC-2 on March 1, 1938. The " Yosemite  crash" was the crash and disappearance of a      DC-2 on   .
125 san+francisco During a scheduled passenger flight from San Francisco to Winslow, Arizona, TWA's interstate hub, the flight encountered severe weather and radioed their intention to land in nearby Fresno. During a scheduled passenger flight from   to , , 's interstate hub, the flight encountered severe weather and radioed their intention to land in nearby .
126 san+francisco The aircraft never arrived, and was found three months later having crashed into a mountain in Yosemite National Park. The aircraft never arrived, and was found    having crashed into a mountain in Yosemite National Park.
127 san+francisco The aircraft was flying from San Francisco to Winslow which was a hub connecting TWA's transcontinental Los Angeles-New York route. The aircraft was flying from   to  which was a hub connecting 's transcontinental    route.
128 san+francisco It departed San Francisco in clear, overcast skies with a cloud ceiling between , and had sufficient fuel to last until midnight. It departed   in clear, overcast skies with a cloud ceiling between , and had sufficient fuel to last until midnight.
129 san+francisco This earthquake, larger than the 1906 San Francisco earthquake, is Canada's largest earthquake recorded by seismometers. This earthquake, larger than the    earthquake, is 's largest earthquake recorded by seismometers.
130 san+francisco However, the greatest earthquake in Canadian history was the 1700 Cascadia earthquake, a megathrust earthquake that occurred along the Pacific Northwest coast from Northern California to southwestern British Columbia which reached magnitude 9 on the Richter magnitude scale. However, the greatest earthquake in  history was the  Cascadia earthquake, a megathrust earthquake that occurred along the   coast from   to southwestern   which reached magnitude  on the Richter magnitude scale.
131 san+francisco On February 13, 1950, a Convair B-36B, serial number "44-92075" assigned to the 7th Bomb Wing at Carswell Air Force Base, crashed in northern British Columbia after jettisoning a Mark 4 nuclear bomb. On    a   serial number "" assigned to the    at     crashed in northern   after jettisoning a Mark  nuclear bomb.
132 san+francisco This was the first such nuclear weapon loss in history. This was the  such nuclear weapon loss in history.
133 san+francisco The Convair had been en route from Eielson Air Force Base near Fairbanks, Alaska to Carswell AFB in Fort Worth, Texas, on a mission that included a simulated nuclear attack on San Francisco, California. The  had been en route from     near ,  to   in  , , on a mission that included a simulated nuclear attack on  , .
134 san+francisco The "1952 Kern County earthquake" occurred on July 21, 1952, in Kern County, California, with a magnitude of 7.3 on the moment magnitude scale. The "   earthquake" occurred on    in    with a magnitude of  on the moment magnitude scale.
135 san+francisco It was the largest earthquake to strike Southern California since the Fort Tejon earthquake of 1857 and the 1872 Lone Pine earthquake, causing immense and widespread damage. It was the largest earthquake to strike   since the   earthquake of  and the  Lone Pine earthquake, causing immense and widespread damage.
136 san+francisco The main shock killed 12 people, injured 18 and caused more than $50 million in property damage. The main shock killed  people, injured  and caused more than $50 million in property damage.
137 san+francisco Damage occurred as far away as Los Angeles, where six people were killed. Damage occurred as far away as  , where  people were killed.
138 san+francisco It was followed by several aftershocks, at least 20 of which were magnitude 5.0 or greater, including a magnitude 5.8 on August 22 that killed two more people. It was followed by several aftershocks, at least  of which were magnitude  or greater, including a magnitude  on   that killed  more people.
139 san+francisco The quake occurred on the White Wolf Fault and was the strongest quake in California since the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. The quake occurred on the White Wolf Fault and was the strongest quake in  since the    earthquake.
140 san+francisco The airspace over the canyon was not under any type of radar surveillance and there were no homing beacons or "black boxes" (cockpit voice and flight data recorders) aboard either aircraft. The airspace over the canyon was not under any type of radar surveillance and there were no homing beacons or "black boxes" (cockpit voice and flight data recorders) aboard either aircraft.
141 san+francisco The last position reports received from the flights did not reflect their locations at the time of impact. The last position reports received from the flights did not reflect their locations at the time of impact.
142 san+francisco Also, there were no credible witnesses to the collision itself or the subsequent crashes. Also, there were no credible witnesses to the collision itself or the subsequent crashes.
143 san+francisco The only immediate indication of trouble was when United company radio operators in Salt Lake City and San Francisco heard a garbled transmission from flight 718, the last from either aircraft. The only immediate indication of trouble was when    operators in    and   heard a garbled transmission from flight , the last from either aircraft.
144 san+francisco Civil Aeronautics Board (CAB) accident investigation engineers later deciphered the transmission&mdash;which had been preserved on magnetic tape&mdash;as the voice of co-pilot Robert Harms declaring, "Salt Lake, [ah], 718...we are going in!" The shrill voice of Captain Shirley was heard in the background as, futilely struggling with the controls, he implored the plane to "[Pull] up! [Pull] up!" (bracketed words were inferred by investigators from the context and circumstances in which they were uttered). (CAB) accident investigation engineers later deciphered the transmission&mdash;which had been preserved on magnetic tape&mdash;as the voice of co-pilot   declaring, " , [ah], ...we are going in!"The shrill voice of Captain  was heard in the background as, futilely struggling with the controls, he implored the plane to "[Pull] up![Pull] up!"(bracketed words were inferred by investigators from the context and circumstances in which they were uttered).
145 san+francisco The first hurricane of the season was identified by the National Weather Bureau in San Francisco, California on July 15. The  hurricane of the season was identified by the    in  ,  on  .
146 san+francisco The previous day, the "S.S. Garvel Park" recorded sustained winds of 50 mph (85 km/h) when it was situated roughly 75 mi (120 km) south of Manzanillo, Mexico. , the "S.S. Garvel Park" recorded sustained winds of  mph ( km/h) when it was situated roughly  mi ( km) south of , .
147 san+francisco Although listed as a Category 1 hurricane for its entire known existence by the Atlantic hurricane database, the storm was not confirmed to have attained hurricane intensity until July 21. Although listed as a Category  hurricane for its entire known existence by the  hurricane database, the storm was not confirmed to have attained hurricane intensity until  2.
148 san+francisco The storm took a steady westward track during the early portion of its existence in response to a strong ridge located north of Hawaii. The storm took a steady westward track during the early portion of its existence in response to a strong ridge located north of .
149 san+francisco On July 18, the National Weather Bureau discontinued advisories on the storm as no information on it was being received. On  , the    discontinued advisories on the storm as no information on it was being received.
150 san+francisco The "1965 Carmel mid-air collision" occurred on December 4, 1965 when "Eastern Air Lines Flight 853" (N6218C), a Lockheed Super Constellation en route from Boston Logan International Airport to Newark International Airport, collided in mid-air with "Trans World Airlines Flight 42" (N748TW), a Boeing 707-131B en route from San Francisco International Airport to John F. Kennedy International Airport, over Carmel, New York, USA. The "  mid-air collision" occurred on    when "Eastern Air Lines Flight " (N6218C) a    en route from     to    collided in mid-air with "   Flight 2" (N78TW) a  707-131B en route from     to      over    .
151 san+francisco At 04:56 and 06:19 UTC on October 2, 1969 (21:56 and 23:19 PDT October 1), a pair of earthquakes of magnitude 5.6 and 5.7, respectively, struck the city of Santa Rosa, California, killing one person and damaging buildings. At 04:56 and 06:9 UTC on    (:56 and 3:9 PDT  ) a pair of earthquakes of magnitude  and  respectively struck the city of    killing  person and damaging buildings.
152 san+francisco The maximum felt intensity for the two events was VII (very strong) and VIII (destructive) respectively on the Mercalli intensity scale. The maximum felt intensity for the  events was VII (very strong) and VIII (destructive) respectively on the Mercalli intensity scale.
153 san+francisco The $8.35 million cost of the earthquakes went mostly to replace buildings damaged beyond repair. The $8.35 million cost of the earthquakes went mostly to replace buildings damaged beyond repair.
154 san+francisco There were at least 200 aftershocks after the initial pair of earthquakes. There were at least  aftershocks after the initial pair of earthquakes.
155 san+francisco At the time they were the largest earthquakes to affect the northern San Francisco Bay Area since the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. At the time they were the largest earthquakes to affect the northern     since the    earthquake.
156 san+francisco The current tectonics of northern California are mainly controlled by the San Andreas Fault system, the zone of dextral strike-slip faulting that accommodates displacement between the North American Plate and the Pacific Plate along this transform boundary. The  tectonics of northern  are mainly controlled by the    system, the zone of dextral strike-slip faulting that accommodates displacement between the    and the   along this transform boundary.
157 san+francisco In addition to the San Andreas Fault itself there are numerous other sub-parallel dextral strike-slip faults that take up some of the plate boundary motion distributed through a zone more than 100 km wide. In addition to the   Fault itself there are numerous other sub-parallel dextral strike-slip faults that take up some of the plate boundary motion distributed through a zone more than  km wide.
158 san+francisco The 1969 earthquakes and most of their aftershocks occurred along the Healdsburg Fault, which lies between the Maacama Fault and the Rodgers Creek Fault, linked to them by right step-overs. The  earthquakes and most of their aftershocks occurred along the  , which lies between the   and the   , linked to them by right step-overs.
159 san+francisco These faults may form a continuation of the Hayward Fault Zone north of San Francisco Bay. These faults may form a continuation of the Hayward Fault Zone north of   .
160 san+francisco The "1984 Morgan Hill Earthquake" (also "Halls Valley Earthquake") was a magnitude 6.2 earthquake that occurred on April 24, 1984 at 1:15 p.m. local time, in the south San Francisco Bay Area, California. The " Morgan Hill Earthquake" (also "Halls Valley Earthquake") was a magnitude  earthquake that occurred on    at 1:15 p.m. local time in the south     .
161 san+francisco The epicenter of the quake was located near Mount Hamilton in the Diablo Range of the California Coast Ranges, although nearby communities, including Morgan Hill, sustained serious damage. The epicenter of the quake was located near   in the Diablo Range of the   , although nearby communities, including  , sustained serious damage.
162 san+francisco Damages from the earthquake totaled US$7 million, not taking into account damages to high-tech industrial facilities. Damages from the earthquake totaled US$7 million, not taking into account damages to high-tech industrial facilities.
163 san+francisco While not on or near any fault line like San Francisco or Los Angeles, Mexico City is vulnerable to earthquakes. While not on or near any fault line like   or  ,   is vulnerable to earthquakes.
164 san+francisco The main reason for this is the surface geology of the area, especially the downtown area. The main reason for this is the surface geology of the area, especially the downtown area.
165 san+francisco The city grew from an island in the middle of Lake Texcoco outward, as this lake was eventually drained. The city grew from an island in the middle of   outward, as this lake was eventually drained.
166 san+francisco The near surface geology of this area is classified into three sections: the old lake bed which is soft clay from volcanic ash with a high water content, a piedmont area, much of which is  capped by 5 to 30 meters of lava less than 2,500 years old, and an old river delta area. The near surface geology of this area is classified into  sections: the  lake bed which is soft clay from volcanic ash with a high water content, a piedmont area, much of which is  capped by  to  meters of lava   2,00  , and an  river delta area.
167 san+francisco The "Loma Prieta earthquake", also known as the "Quake of '89" and the "World Series Earthquake", was a major earthquake that struck the San Francisco Bay Area of California on October 17, 1989, at 5:04 pm local time. The "  earthquake" also known as the "Quake of " and the "  " was a major earthquake that struck the     of  on   19 at 5:04 pm local time.
168 san+francisco Caused by a slip along the San Andreas Fault, the quake lasted 10–15 seconds and measured 6.9 both on the moment magnitude scale (surface-wave magnitude 7.1) and on the open-ended Richter Scale. Caused by a slip along the   , the quake lasted –  and measured  both on the moment magnitude scale (surface-wave magnitude ) and on the open-ended Richter Scale.
169 san+francisco The quake killed 63 people throughout northern California, injured 3,757 and left some 3,000–12,000 people homeless. The quake killed  people throughout northern , injured  and left some – people homeless.
170 san+francisco Hilda gradually weakened over cool waters but maintained a rather large level of circulation. gradually weakened over cool waters but maintained a rather large level of circulation.
171 san+francisco This caused its dissipation to be slower than normal. This caused its dissipation to be slower than normal.
172 san+francisco Tropical Depression Hilda dissipated on August 14. Tropical Depression  dissipated on  .
173 san+francisco It large remnant circulation continued northwards and eventually passed over California. It large remnant circulation continued northwards and eventually passed over .
174 san+francisco There were no casualties or damages attributed to this tropical cyclone. There were no casualties or damages attributed to this tropical cyclone.
175 san+francisco Hilda's remnants caused rain as far north as San Francisco. 's remnants caused rain as far north as  .
176 san+francisco The earthquake caused landslides throughout the Honeydew and Petrolia areas. The earthquake caused landslides throughout the Honeydew and Petrolia areas.
177 san+francisco It reached a maximum intensity of VIII on the Modified Mercalli Scale at Ferndale, Honeydew, Rio Dell, Petrolia, and Scotia. It reached a maximum intensity of  on the Modified Mercalli Scale at , Honeydew,  , Petrolia, and .
178 san+francisco The earthquake was felt as far away as Reno, Nevada, and San Francisco. The earthquake was felt as far away as , , and  .
179 san+francisco Detachments of the 1st Aero Squadron returned to Fort Crockett, Texas, on April 30, 1914 when the Tampico Affair threatened war again, although they arrived too late to be transshipped to Mexico and their aircraft were never uncrated, and to Brownsville in March 1915 when civil war broke out between Francisco "Pancho" Villa and the government of Venustiano Carranza. Detachments of the    returned to    on    when the  Affair threatened war again although they arrived too late to be transshipped to  and their aircraft were never uncrated and to  in   when civil war broke out between  ""  and the government of  .
180 san+francisco Now a unit of the Aviation Section, U.S. Signal Corps, the squadron transferred by rail on 29 July 1915, to Fort Sill, Oklahoma, to learn artillery spotting using new Curtiss JN-2s. a unit of the  ,  Signal Corps, the squadron transferred by rail on   , to  , , to learn artillery spotting using new  JN-2s.
181 san+francisco A fatal crash occurred on 12 August, followed by a second crash on 5 September after protests about its safety were overruled by squadron commander Capt. A ftl crsh occurred on  , followed by   crsh on   fter protests bout its sfety were overruled by squdron commnder Cpt.
182 san+francisco Benjamin D. Foulois. .
183 san+francisco The six surviving JN-2s were grounded until 14 October, when they were converted to the newer JN-3. The  surviving JN-2s were grounded until  , when they were converted to the newer JN-3.
184 san+francisco The squadron flew to Fort Sam Houston, San Antonio, Texas, on 15 November 1915. The squadron flew to   ,  , , on   19.
185 san+francisco Great earthquakes such as the Sumatra-Andaman event, which are invariably associated with megathrust events in subduction zones, have seismic moments that can account for a significant fraction of the global earthquake moment across century-scale time periods. Great earthquakes such as the  event, which are invariably associated with megathrust events in subduction zones, have seismic moments that can account for a significant fraction of the global earthquake moment across century-scale time periods.
186 san+francisco Of all the seismic moment released by earthquakes in the 100 years from 1906 through 2005, roughly one-eighth was due to the Sumatra-Andaman event. Of all  seismic moment released by earthquakes in      through , roughly  was due to   event.
187 san+francisco This quake, together with the Good Friday Earthquake (Alaska, 1964) and the Great Chilean Earthquake (1960), account for almost half of the total moment. This quake, together with the   Earthquake (, ) and the Great Chilean Earthquake (), account for almost half of the total moment.
188 san+francisco The much smaller but still catastrophic 1906 San Francisco earthquake is included in the diagram below for perspective. The much smaller but still catastrophic    earthquake is included in the diagram below for perspective.
189 san+francisco Mw denotes the magnitude of an earthquake on the moment magnitude scale. Mw denotes the magnitude of an earthquake on the moment magnitude scale.
190 san+francisco The Alum Rock earthquake was the largest in the San Francisco Bay Area since the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake, which measured 6.9 on the moment magnitude scale. The Alum Rock earthquake was the largest in the     since the    earthquake, which measured  on the moment magnitude scale.
191 san+francisco Ground shaking from the Alum Rock quake reached San Francisco and Oakland and other points further north. Ground shaking from the Alum Rock quake reached   and  and other points further north.
192 san+francisco ElarmS, an earthquake early warning system, accurately predicted the quake seconds before it struck, correctly estimating the quake's magnitude to within 0.5 magnitude units using only three to four seconds worth of data. ElarmS, an earthquake early warning system, accurately predicted the quake  before it struck, correctly estimating the quake's magnitude  within  magnitude units using only     worth of data.
193 san+francisco Scientists with the California Integrated Seismic Network hope to refine the system to provide a 10-second warning in a similar quake to residents of Oakland and San Francisco. Scientists with the     hope to refine the system to provide a  warning in a similar quake to residents of  and  .
194 san+francisco An area of disturbed weather formed about  south-southeast of Hong Kong early on September 19. An area of disturbed weather formed about  south-southeast of   early on  .
195 san+francisco It was recognised as a minor tropical depression by the JMA on the 21st, and upgraded to a full depression on the 23rd. It was recognised as a minor tropical depression by the  on the , and upgraded to a full depression on the .
196 san+francisco The JTWC recognised Tropical Depression 15W at the same time. The JTWC recognised Tropical Depression 15W at the same time.
197 san+francisco Nine hours after being declared a full depression, the JMA and the JTWC upgraded it to Tropical Storm Francisco. after being declared a full depression, the  and the  upgraded it to Tropical Storm Francisco.
198 san+francisco The storm traveled due west and over Wenchang on Hainan Island on September 24. The storm traveled due west and over  on   on  .
199 san+francisco Land interaction and moderate wind shear caused Francisco to weaken to a tropical depression as warnings were discontinued. Land interaction and moderate wind shear caused  to weaken to a tropical depression as warnings were discontinued.
200 san+francisco The name 'Francisco' was submitted by the United States and is a common Chamorro man's name. The name 'Francisco' was submitted by the   and is a common Chamorro man's name.
201 san+francisco A ship, carrying eight people sank over the South China Sea during the storm. A ship, carrying  people sank over the    during the storm.
202 san+francisco Two of the people on the ship were rescued but the other six were listed as missing. of the people on the ship were rescued but the other  were listed as missing.
203 san+francisco The "2007 San Francisco International Airport runway incursion" occurred around 1:30 pm PST on May 26, 2007 when SkyWest Airlines (operating as United Express) Flight 5741 (SKW5741), an Embraer EMB 120 Brasilia turboprop aircraft, nearly collided with Republic Airlines (operating as Frontier Airlines) Flight 4912, an Embraer 170 Regional Jet, at the intersection of runways 1L and 28R at San Francisco International Airport (SFO), South San Francisco, California. The "     runway incursion" occurred around 1:30 pm PST on    when   (operating as  ) Flight  (SKW) an     turboprop aircraft nearly collided with   (operating as  ) Flight  an     at the intersection of runways 1L and 28R at     (SFO)    .
204 san+francisco Southern California is at slightly higher risk than Northern California: The chance that a magnitude-6.7 quake will strike greater Los Angeles is 67 percent. is at slightly higher risk than  : The chance that a magnitude-6 quake will strike greater   is 67 percent.
205 san+francisco The probability of the same sized temblor striking the San Francisco area is 63 percent. The probability of the same sized temblor striking the   area is 63 percent.
206 san+francisco Experts say that the fault with the highest probability — 59 percent likelihood — of generating at least one 6.7 or larger quake is the southern portion of the San Andreas Fault, which runs 1,300 kilometers across southern and western California, including beneath the eastern suburbs of Los Angeles. Experts say that the fault with the highest probability — 59 percent likelihood — of generating at least   or larger quake is the southern portion of the   , which runs  kilometers across southern and western , including beneath the eastern suburbs of  .
207 san+francisco In Northern California, the Hayward-Rodgers Creek fault zone is the most likely to shake, with a 31 percent chance of generating at least a 6.7 quake. In  , the Hayward-Rodgers Creek fault zone is the most likely to shake, with a 31 percent chance of generating at least a  quake.
208 san+francisco The Hayward fault zone runs beneath eastern San Francisco and the East Bay suburbs, including Berkeley and Oakland. The Hayward fault zone runs beneath eastern   and the   suburbs, including  and .
209 san+francisco The last major earthquake on this fault was in 1868, but activity in October 2007 rattled San Jose and other Bay Area cities. The last major earthquake on this fault was in , but activity in   rattled   and other   cities.
210 san+francisco Italian laboratory technician Giampaolo Giuliani predicted a major earthquake on Italian television a month before, after measuring increased levels of radon emitted from the ground. lbortory technicin   predicted  mjor erthquke on  television   before, fter mesuring incresed levels of rdon emitted from the ground.
211 san+francisco He was accused of being alarmist by the Director of the Civil Defence, Guido Bertolaso, and forced to remove his findings from the Internet (old data and descriptions are still on line). He was accused of being alarmist by the Director of the  ,  , and forced to remove his findings from the  (old data and descriptions are still on line).
212 san+francisco He was also reported to police a week before the main quake for "causing fear" among the local population when he predicted an earthquake was imminent in Sulmona, about  from L'Aquila, on 30 March, after a 4° quake happened, (later Sulmona only suffered minor damages by the 6 April earthquake). He ws lso reported to police   before the min quke for "cusing fer" mong the locl popultion when he predicted n erthquke ws imminent in Sulmon, bout  from L'Aquil, on  Mrch, fter  ° quke hppened, (lter Sulmon only suffered minor dmges by the   erthquke).
213 san+francisco Enzo Boschi, the head of the Italian National Geophysics Institute declared: ""Every time there is an earthquake there are people who claim to have predicted it. , the head of the Italian    declared: ""Every time there is an earthquake there are people who claim to have predicted it.
214 san+francisco As far as I know nobody predicted this earthquake with precision. As far as I know nobody predicted this earthquake with precision.
215 san+francisco It is not possible to predict earthquakes."" It is not possible to predict earthquakes.""
216 san+francisco Predicting earthquakes based on radon emissions has been studied by scientists since the 1970s, but enthusiasm for it had faded due to inconsistent results. Predicting earthquakes based on radon emissions has been studied by scientists since  , but enthusiasm for it had faded due to inconsistent results.
217 san+francisco In December 2009, Giuliani presented his research, without many important details, to the American Geophysical Union in San Francisco; the union subsequently invited him to take part in developing a worldwide seismic early warning system. In  ,  presented his research, without many important details, to the    in  ; the union subsequently invited him to take part in developing a worldwide seismic early warning system.
218 san+francisco On his return home, the Italian authorities lifted the gagging injunctions against his predictions. On his return home, the  authorities lifted the gagging injunctions against his predictions.
219 san+francisco After his victory in the qualification race, Vernay started from pole position with Ericsson starting alongside, with Mortara and Bottas on row two. After his victory in the qualification race,  started from pole position with  starting alongside, with  and  on row .
220 san+francisco Due to damage inflicted in his spectacular accident the previous day, Boyd didn't start, thus leaving the grid at 28 cars. Due to damage inflicted in his spectacular accident   ,  didn't start, thus leaving  grid at  cars.
221 san+francisco Once again, Ericsson made an awful getaway, with Bottas and Mortara both slotting in behind a fast-starting Vernay. again,  made an awful getaway, with  and  both slotting in behind a fast-starting .
222 san+francisco Into Lisboa, Ricciardo got alongside Ericsson as they battled for fourth with the Australian brushing the wall and the two continued side-by-side into San Francisco, with Ricciardo again nudging the wall. Into Lisboa,  got alongside  as they battled for  with the  brushing the wall and the  continued side-by-side into  , with  again nudging the wall.
223 san+francisco Behind them, Vanthoor left his braking way too late for Lisboa, and mounted over Chilton, which caused the teenage Briton to retire on the spot. Behind them,  left his braking way too late for , and mounted over , which caused the teenage  to retire on the spot.
224 san+francisco Ricciardo's clip with the wall caused a left-rear puncture, but he managed to carry on up the hill, until he crashed at the entrance to the Solitude Esses. 's clip with the wall caused a left-rear puncture, but he managed to carry on up the hill, until he crashed at the entrance to the Solitude Esses.
225 san+francisco His car rebounded off the wall, and into direct line of the rest of the field. His car rebounded off the wall, and into direct line of the rest of the field.
226 san+francisco No less than half a dozen cars impacted with the stricken car, and blocked the track which ultimately led to a red flag, and a race suspension. No less than half a  cars impacted with the stricken car, and blocked the track which ultimately led to a red flag, and a race suspension.
227 san+francisco Also taken out in the incident were the third Carlin of Hartley, the Premas of Coletti and Zampieri, the Fortecs of Rosenzweig and McKenzie, and Ho. Also taken out in the incident were the   of , the Premas of  and , the Fortecs of  and , and Ho.
228 san+francisco Imperatori was also involved, returning to the pits for a lengthy period, but returned to complete three laps towards the end. was also involved, returning to the pits for a lengthy period, but returned to complete  laps towards the end.
229 san+francisco Vanthoor, with a damaged front wheel after his collision with Chilton, stopped just short of the accident site, and was thus able to continue in the race. Vanthoor, with a damaged front wheel after his collision with , stopped just short of the accident site, and was thus able to continue in the race.
230 san+francisco After hitting the wall on countless occasions over the previous two days, Chen was withdrawn from the race due to a cracked monocoque. After hitting  wall on countless occasions over    ,  was withdrawn from  race due to a cracked monocoque.
231 san+francisco Thus, this left the grid at 29 for the 10-lap race, and Vernay got the jump on Ericsson away from the start-finish line, and took the lead into the first corner, but by the time the drivers had reached Lisboa, Ericsson was back in front just as the safety car came out. Thus, this left the grid at  for the 10-lap race, and  got the jump on  away from the start-finish line, and took the lead into the  corner, but by the time the drivers had reached ,  was back in front just as the safety car came out.
232 san+francisco Further back, Bianchi rode over the rear wheel of Mortara at San Francisco, causing enough damage for the Frenchman to pit. Further back,  rode over the rear wheel of  at  , causing enough damage for the  to pit.
233 san+francisco Rosenzweig collided with the barriers at the Mandarin, which brought the safety car out for three laps. collided with the barriers at the Mandarin, which brought the safety car out for  laps.
234 san+francisco Arundel's Carlin car encountered mechanical troubles under the safety car, after some debris punctured a hole in the radiator of his Volkswagen engine. Arundel's  car encountered mechanical troubles under the safety car, after some debris punctured a hole in the radiator of his  engine.
235 san+francisco This left the order as Ericsson, Vernay, Mortara (who moved up despite his collision), Bottas, Ricciardo, Vanthoor, Bird, Coletti, Mäki and Hartley. This left the order as , ,  (who moved up despite his collision), , , Vanthoor, , ,  and .
236 san+francisco Boyd moved up five positions at the start, as he was the biggest winner off the line. moved up  positions at the start, as he was the biggest winner off the line.
237 san+francisco Aeroméxico Flight 665, a Boeing 737–752, registration XA-NAM, suffers a nosewheel collapse on pushback at San Francisco International Airport. Aeroméxico Flight , a  –, registration XA-NAM, suffers a nosewheel collapse on pushback at    .
238 san+francisco The aircraft is substantially damaged. The aircraft is substantially damaged.
239 san+francisco The media have remarked on the lack of casualties, despite the close parallels of the quake to incidents that have had devastating consequences in other countries, such as the 1989 San Francisco Quake, that killed 63 people and was magnitude 7.1 also. The media have remarked on the lack of casualties, despite the close parallels of the quake to incidents that have had devastating consequences in other countries, such as the    , that killed  people and was magnitude  also.
240 san+francisco The analysis especially compared the Canterbury quake with the 2010 Haiti earthquake, which also occurred in similar proximity to an urban area, also occurred at shallow depth under the surface, and was of very similar strength. The analysis especially compared the  quake with the   earthquake, which also occurred in similar proximity to an urban area, also occurred at shallow depth under the surface, and was of very similar strength.
241 san+francisco Unlike many tens of thousands of deaths in Haiti (with some estimates placing the death toll at one in ten or higher), no deaths directly attributable to the earthquake were reported in New Zealand. Unlike many s of thousands of deaths in  (with some estimates placing the death toll at  in  or higher), no deaths directly attributable to the earthquake were reported in  .
242 san+francisco This was ascribed to the fact that the quake happened in the early hours of a Saturday morning, when most people were asleep in timber framed homes, and "...there would almost certainly have been many deaths and serious injuries had it happened during a busy time of the day...". This was ascribed to  fact that  quake happened in    of a  morning, when most people were asleep in timber framed homes, and "...re would almost certainly have been many deaths and serious injuries had it happened during a busy time of  ...".
243 san+francisco Another important factor was building practices which took earthquakes into account, starting after the 1848 Marlborough earthquake and the 1855 Wairarapa earthquake, both of which badly affected Wellington. Another important factor was building practices which took earthquakes into account, starting after the   earthquake and the   earthquake, both of which badly affected .
244 san+francisco These led to formal standards after the 1931 Hawke's Bay earthquake, which have since been progressively updated. These led to formal standards after the  's Bay earthquake, which have since been progressively updated.
245 san+francisco By contrast, Haiti's much lower standard codes were poorly enforced and many buildings were made of hand-made non-reinforced concrete, which is extremely vulnerable to seismic damage. By contrast, 's much lower standard codes were poorly enforced and many buildings were made of hand-made non-reinforced concrete, which is extremely vulnerable to seismic damage.
246 san+francisco Ground shaking in populated areas of Canterbury was also generally less strong than for the Haiti quake. Ground shaking in populated areas of  was also generally less strong than for the  quake.
247 san+francisco The "2010 San Bruno pipeline explosion" occurred at 6:11 pm PDT on September 9, 2010, in San Bruno, California, a suburb of San Francisco, when a 30 inch diameter steel natural gas pipeline owned by Pacific Gas & Electric exploded in flames in the Crestmoor residential neighborhood  west of San Francisco International Airport near Skyline Boulevard and San Bruno Avenue. The "   pipeline explosion" occurred at 6:11 pm PDT on    in    a suburb of   when a  inch diameter steel natural gas pipeline owned by     exploded in flames in the Crestmoor residential neighborhood  west of     near   and   .
248 san+francisco The loud roar and shaking led some residents of the area, first responders, and news media to initially believe that it was an earthquake or that a large jetliner had crashed. The loud roar and shaking led some residents of the area,  responders, and news media to initially believe that it was an earthquake or that a large jetliner had crashed.
249 san+francisco It took crews nearly an hour to determine it was a gas pipeline explosion. It took crews    to determine it was a gas pipeline explosion.
250 san+francisco As of September 29, 2010, the death toll was eight people. As of    the death toll was  people.
251 san+francisco The U.S. Geological Survey registered the explosion and resulting shock wave as a magnitude 1.1 earthquake. The    registered the explosion and resulting shock wave as a magnitude  earthquake.
252 san+francisco Eye witnesses reported the initial blast "had a wall of fire more than 1,000 feet high". Eye witnesses reported the initial blast "had a wall of fire more than  feet high".
253 san+francisco In the second 45-minute practice session, Wittmann and Merhi fought for the top spot again as the track had dried out from earlier rain, and drivers were able to use slick tyres for the first time in the meeting. In the   practice session,  and  fought for the top spot again as the track had dried out from earlier rain, and drivers were able to use slick tyres for the  time in the meeting.
254 san+francisco Wittmann came out on top by three tenths of a second, ahead of Merhi. cme out on top by  tenths of  , hed of .
255 san+francisco Juncadella, Sainz and Nasr filled out the rest of the top five, the only other drivers to be within a second of the pace set by Wittmann. ,  nd  filled out the rest of the top , the only other drivers to be within   of the pce set by Wittmnn.
256 san+francisco The session had to be stopped three times due to crashes, as Félix da Costa crashed early on at Moorish, Merhi hit the barriers at San Francisco after running wide, and team-mate Juncadella also crashed into the barriers late on. The session had to be stopped  times due to crashes, as Félix da Costa crashed early on at ,  hit the barriers at   after running wide, and team-mate  also crashed into the barriers late on.
257 san+francisco Juncadella also became another driver to be penalised three places on the grid for illegally crossing the pit lane exit line. also became another driver to be penalised  places on the grid for illegally crossing the pit lane exit line.
258 san+francisco ;May 14, 2012 — San Francisco to Santa Cruz County,  —  Intermediate stage The stage included two major climbs: racers were faced with the Empire Grade difficulty (Category 1) at  from the start, and they tackled with the Bear Creek climb (Category 2) at the  mark. ;   —   to ta    —  Intermediate stage The stage included  major climbs: racers were faced with the Empire Grade difficulty (Category ) at  from the start and they tackled with the Bear Creek climb (Category ) at the  mark.
259 san+francisco Race leader Peter Sagan was part of a crash that occurred near the top of the Empire Grade climb, but he could recover and got back on his bike after some on-the-fly repairs by the team's mechanic. Race leader   was part of a crash that occurred near the top of the Empire Grade climb, but he could recover and got back on his bike after some on-the-fly repairs by the team's mechanic.
260 san+francisco Alexandre Geniez from  was part of an early break with 5 other riders and was the lone surviving escapee, but was caught on the last climb of the day with  to go. from  was part of an early break with  or riders and was  lone surviving escapee, but was caught on  last climb of   with  to go.
261 san+francisco He was rewarded for his efforts with the "Most Aggressive rider" jersey. He was rewarded for his efforts with the "  rider" jersey.
262 san+francisco A bunch composed of about 60 units came charging in Santa Cruz, with all the overall classification contenders present. A bunch composed of about  units came charging in  , with all the overall classification contenders .
263 san+francisco Rory Sutherland from  broke away with about  to cover in a bid to win the stage and the 10 seconds bonus given to the victor, but his effort proved to be in vain as he was reeled back in shortly after the  mark. from  broke away with about  to cover in a bid to win  stage and    bonus given to  victor, but his effort proved to be in vain as he was reeled back in shortly after   mark.
264 san+francisco The  train dragged Sagan to the last corner, a right bend with the finish line only a couple hundred meters away. The  train dragged  to the last corner, a right bend with the finish line only a couple  meters away.
265 san+francisco Sagan was first out of the corner and accelerated to the finish, taking his second victory in a row. was  out of the corner and accelerated to the finish, taking his  victory in a row.
266 san+francisco The squadron was activated on 12 May 1915 by the Aviation Section, U.S. Signal Corps at Rockwell Field, San Diego, California, but not organized or manned until December, pending the allotment of funds for the construction of facilities in the Philippines. The squadron was activated on    by the Aviation Section,  Signal Corps at  ,  , , but not organized or manned until , pending the allotment of funds for the construction of facilities in the .
267 san+francisco It was organized as a single company of six officers and 37 men and sailed from San Francisco for Manila on 5 January 1916. It was organized as a single company of  officers and  men and sailed from   for  on   .
268 san+francisco After two weeks of quarantine, the unit reached its station on Corregidor on 14 February without aircraft. After   of quarantine, the unit reached its station on  on   without aircraft.
269 san+francisco It received four Martin S-Hydro seaplanes (Signal Corps numbers 56-59) on 13 March and 15 April, and began flying on 8 May 1916. It received   S-Hydro seaplanes (Signal Corps numbers ) on     ,  began flying on   .
270 san+francisco A radio transmitter was set up in one aircraft, giving the aircraft a broadcast range of 29 miles. A radio transmitter was set up in  aircraft, giving the aircraft a broadcast range of  miles.
271 san+francisco On 28 June, the company provided artillery spotting and adjustment for target practice with the Fort Mills batteries. On  , the company provided artillery spotting and adjustment for target practice with the Fort Mills batteries.
272 san+francisco Personnel for a second company were assembled and the unit was redesignated the 2d Aero Squadron on 20 July 1917. Personnel for   compny were ssembled nd the unit ws redesignted the 2d  Squdron on   .
273 san+francisco Squadron moved to California in 1935 and was assigned to the new Hamilton Field near San Francisco, as part of the 12th Observation Group. Squadron moved to  in  and was assigned to the new   near  , as part of the  Observation Group.
274 san+francisco Became a coastal patrol squadron operating amphibian aircraft, then began to operate modern Martin B-10 bombers in 1936 in the reconnaissance mission when attached as the fourth squadron of the 7th Bombardment Group, 1st Wing, General Headquarters Air Force. Became a coastal patrol squadron operating amphibian aircraft, then began to operate modern   bombers in  in the reconnaissance mission when attached as the  squadron of the   ,  Wing,    .
275 san+francisco The squadron dropped food and supplies and flew photographic missions in connection with flood-relief operations in central California, December 12–13, 1937; upgraded to the B-18 Bolo in 1938, and in 1939 to early-model Boeing B-17B Flying Fortress for long range reconnaissance patrols. The squadron dropped food and supplies and flew photographic missions in connection with flood-relief operations in central ,  –, ; upgraded to the   in , and in  to early-model  B-17B Flying Fortress for long range reconnaissance patrols.
276 san+francisco Moved to Fort Douglas, Utah in 1940 when the short runways at Hamilton proved inadequate for B-17 operations, with a secondary move to Salt Lake City Army Air Base in January 1941 where it was upgraded to the B-17E. Moved to  ,  in  when the short runways at  proved inadequate for  operations, with a secondary move to       in   where it was upgraded to the E.
277 san+francisco On 2 May 1947, it was again reformed as the 505th Aircraft Control and Warning Group (ACWG). On   , it was again reformed as the 505th      (ACWG).
278 san+francisco Stationed at McChord Field (later Air Force Base), Washington, the group was activated under the Air Defense Command, becoming the first post-World War II air control and warning unit. Stationed at   (later   ), , the group was activated under the  Defense Command, becoming the     air control and warning unit.
279 san+francisco For the remainder of 1947 the group supported two radar stations, one at Arlington, Washington, and one at Half Moon Bay near San Francisco. For the remainder of  the group supported  radar stations,  at , , and  at    near  .
280 san+francisco These stations worked with fighter squadrons to perfect ground-control and interception techniques. These stations worked with fighter squadrons to perfect ground-control and interception techniques.
281 san+francisco The group included a fleet of B-25 Mitchells used extensively to perform radar calibration flights. The group included a fleet of B-25  used extensively to perform radar calibration flights.
282 san+francisco The experience gained from operating the two sites proved invaluable to air defense planners who were in the process of designing a nationwide early warning radar network. The experience gained from operating the  sites proved invaluable to air defense planners who were in the process of designing a nationwide early warning radar nerk.
283 san+francisco Soon after, while Caldwell visits Fowler in a San Francisco hospital to snap him out of his depression, he receives a call from the operations chief saying that an unidentified aircraft is "on final approach, no emergency declared." Soon after, while  visits  in a   hospital to snap him out of his depression, he receives a call from the operations chief saying that an unidentified aircraft is "on final approach, no emergency declared."
284 san+francisco Suspecting another ORI, Caldwell orders the officer to notify the battle staff at once. Suspecting another ORI,  orders the officer to notify the battle staff at .
285 san+francisco Caldwell cannot return to base fast enough, however, and Farr must assume command in his absence. cannot return to base fast enough, however, and  must assume command in his absence.
286 san+francisco In this capacity, Farr makes a key decision: to launch a B-52 which cannot produce full power on one of its engines, a violation of peacetime flight safety regulations, because "We're simulating wartime conditions." In this capacity,  makes a key decision: to launch a  which cannot produce full power on  of its engines, a violation of peacetime flight safety regulations, because "We're simulating wartime conditions."
287 san+francisco An expert on the danger of fire, in 1899 The Roebling Construction Company published the first of many articles and books by Himmelwright concerning fireproof construction, [http://books.google.com/books?id=jFADAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA409&lpg=PA409&dq=Tests+of+the+Roebling+System+of+Fireproof+Construction&source=web&ots=ZqwtA-AMgf&sig=Xr8Qq-dS5sDr_v6jFZp9-t-P4RE&hl=en&sa=X&oi=book_result&resnum=1&ct=result "Tests of the Roebling System of Fireproof Construction"]. An expert on the danger of fire, in  The    published the  of many articles and books by  concerning fireproof construction, [http://books.google.com/books?id=jFADAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA409&lpg=PA409&dq=Tests+of+the++System+of+Fireproof+&source=web&ots=ZqwtA-AMgf&sig=Xr8Qq-dS5sDr_v6jFZp9-t-P4RE&hl=en&sa=X&oi=book_result&resnum=1&ct=result "Tests of the  System of Fireproof "].
288 san+francisco In 1906, The Roebling Construction Company sought to reinforce its brand and expertise in fireproof development when it published the Himmelwright book,  [http://userwww.sfsu.edu/~szwald/bibliography.htm "The San Francisco Earthquake and Fire : A Brief History of the Disaster ; A Presentation of Facts and Resulting Phenomena, With Special Reference to the Efficiency of Building Materials, Lessons of the Disaster"]. In , The    sought to reinforce its brand and expertise in fireproof development when it published the Himmelwright book,  [http://userwww.sfsu.edu/~szwald/bibliography.htm "The    and Fire : A Brief History of the Disaster ; A Presentation of Facts and Resulting Phenomena, With Special Reference to the Efficiency of Building Materials, Lessons of the Disaster"].
289 san+francisco The Central Valley experiences hypothetical flooding 300 miles long and 20 or more miles wide. The Central Valley experiences hypothetical flooding  miles long and  or more miles wide.
290 san+francisco Serious flooding also occurs in Orange County, Los Angeles County, San Diego, the San Francisco Bay area, and other coastal communities. Serious flooding also occurs in  ,   ,  , the    area, and other coastal communities.
291 san+francisco Windspeeds in some places reach 125 miles per hour, hurricane-force winds. Windspeeds in some places reach  miles per , hurricane-force winds.
292 san+francisco Across wider areas of the state, winds reach 60 miles per hour. Across wider areas of the state, winds reach  miles per .
293 san+francisco Hundreds of landslides damage roads, highways, and homes. Hundreds of landslides damage roads, highways, and homes.
294 san+francisco Property damage exceeds $300 billion, most from flooding. Property damage exceeds $300 billion, most from flooding.
295 san+francisco Demand surge (an increase in labor rates and other repair costs after major natural disasters) could increase property losses by 20 percent. Demand surge (an increase in labor rates and other repair costs after major natural disasters) could increase property losses by 20 percent.
296 san+francisco Agricultural losses and other costs to repair lifelines, dewater (drain) flooded islands, and repair damage from landslides, brings the total direct property loss to nearly $400 billion, of which $20 to $30 billion would be recoverable through public and commercial insurance. Agricultural losses and other costs to repair lifelines, dewater (drain) flooded islands, and repair damage from landslides, brings the total direct property loss to nearly $400 billion, of which $20 to $30 billion would be recoverable through public and commercial insurance.
297 san+francisco Power, water, sewer, and other lifelines experience damage that takes weeks or months to restore. Power, water, sewer, and other lifelines experience damage that takes  or  to restore.
298 san+francisco Flooding evacuation could involve 1.5 million residents in the inland region and delta counties. Flooding evacuation could involve   residents in the inland region and delta counties.
299 san+francisco Business interruption costs reach $325 billion in addition to the $400 billion property repair costs, meaning that an ARkStorm could cost on the order of $725 billion, which is nearly 3 times the loss deemed to be realistic by the ShakeOut authors for a severe southern California earthquake, an event with roughly the same annual occurrence probability. Business interruption costs reach $25 billion in addition to the $400 billion property repair costs, meaning that an ARkStorm could cost on the order of $725 billion, which is nearly  times the loss deemed to be realistic by the ShakeOut authors for a severe southern  earthquake, an event with roughly the same annual occurrence probability.
300 san+francisco During Summer 2005, the Archdiocese of San Francisco sold the building that housed St. Brigid Catholic Church to the Academy of Art University. During  , the Archdiocese of   sold the building that housed     to the Academy of  .
301 san+francisco St. Brigid Church, which first opened as a parish in 1864 and survived the 1906 San Francisco earthquake and fire, was closed in 1994 by the archdiocese as a cost-saving measure. , which  opened as a parish in  and survived the    earthquake and fire, was closed in  by the archdiocese as a cost-saving measure.
302 san+francisco The archdiocese closed the church because of declining attendance, repair costs for damage caused by the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake and the need to pay court judgments resulting from the Catholic Church sexual abuse scandal. The archdiocese closed the church because of declining attendance, repair costs for damage caused by the    earthquake and the need to pay court judgments resulting from the   sexual abuse scandal.
303 san+francisco The Archdiocese of San Francisco plan for the property was for the building to be demolished and the land redeveloped for housing. The Archdiocese of   plan for the property was for the building to be demolished and the land redeveloped for housing.
304 san+francisco The Academy entered into a purchase agreement so that the historic structure could be preserved. The  entered into a purchase agreement so that the historic structure could be preserved.
305 san+francisco After a seismic restoration forecast showed that $7 million USD was needed to shore up the church building, the academy petitioned the City of San Francisco to remove the church from the historic landmark registry so that it could proceed with restoring the building. After a seismic restoration forecast showed that $7 million USD was needed to shore up the church building, the academy petitioned the City of   to remove the church from the historic landmark registry so that it could proceed with restoring the building.
306 san+francisco Several parishioners, who wanted to preserve St. Brigid Church, petitioned the San Francisco Landmarks Preservation Advisory Board to prevent the academy from making changes to the church's exterior and interior features and to preserve the whole of the church as a historic landmark. Several parishioners, who wanted to preserve   , petitioned the       to prevent the academy from making changes to the church's exterior and interior features and to preserve the whole of the church as a historic landmark.
307 san+francisco At 1 pm the British warships had approached enough to open fire on the "San Francisco", who had hoisted their flag, ready for combat. At 1 pm the  warships had approached enough to open fire on the " ", who had hoisted their flag, ready for combat.
308 san+francisco The British frigates also hoisted their British flags. The  frigates also hoisted their  flags.
309 san+francisco The "San Francisco" then opened fire, but retreating without intermission until 4 pm, suffering the fire of two frigates which successively beat him with grapeshot. The " " then opened fire, but retreating without intermission until 4 pm, suffering the fire of  frigates which successively beat him with grapeshot.
310 san+francisco The "San Francisco" could only return the fire with the stern chasers of both batteries, although occasionally she luffed to shoot all their artillery on the frigates, inflicting serious damage. The " " could only return the fire with the stern chasers of both batteries, although occasionally she luffed to shoot all their artillery on the frigates, inflicting serious damage.
311 san+francisco The English duo was preparing to sail out into the Pacific by the morning of 29 June when two other ships came around Cape San Francisco. The  duo was preparing to sail out into the  by the     when  other ships came around   .
312 san+francisco Believing to be Spanish treasure ships from Peru, Hawkins sent his repaired pinnace to reconnoiter, only to see it chased back by Felipón's 14-gun galley-zabra. Believing to be  treasure ships from ,  sent his repaired pinnace to reconnoiter, only to see it chased back by 's 14-gun galley-zabra.
313 san+francisco De Castro's "San Francisco y Nuestra Señora del Rosario" followed close astern and attempted to run aboard "Dainty" but was checked by a heavy broadside. 's "  y    " followed close astern and attempted to run aboard "Dainty" but was checked by a heavy broadside.
314 san+francisco In the meanwhile, the pinnace's crew strove to regain their flagship and concentrate forces but was intercepted by the galley-zabra; a few survivors managed to clamber aboard over the bowspirit. In the meanwhile, the pinnace's crew strove to regain their flagship and concentrate forces but was intercepted by the galley-zabra; a few survivors managed to clamber aboard over the bowspirit.
315 san+francisco Both sides then exchanged long-range salvos for the next couple of days, the English toppling Felipón's mainmast on 30 June before finally surrendering to the Spaniards by the afternoon of 1 July. Both sides n exchanged long-range salvos for     ,   toppling 's mainmast on    finally surrendering to  Spaniards by  afternoon  1 .
316 san+francisco Hawkins suffered half a dozen wounds himself, 27 killed, 17 wounded, and 29 captured among his crew; Spanish losses totaled at 28 dead and 22 injured out of 300. suffered half a  wounds himself,  killed,  wounded, and  captured among his crew;  losses totaled at  dead and  injured out of .
317 san+francisco Stringfellow's son wrote the following: My father had constructed another small model which was finished early in 1848, and having the loan of a long room in a disused lace factory, early in June the small model was moved there for experiments. 's son wrote the following: My father had constructed another small model which was finished early in , and having the loan of a long room in a disused lace factory, early in  the small model was moved there for experiments.
318 san+francisco The room was about  long and from 10 to  high. The room was about  long and from  to  high.
319 san+francisco The inclined wire for starting the machine occupied less than half the length of the room and left space at the end for the machine to clear the floor. The inclined wire for starting the machine occupied less than half the length of the room and left space at the end for the machine to clear the floor.
320 san+francisco In the first experiment the tail was set at too high an angle, and the machine rose too rapidly on leaving the wire. In the  experiment the tail was set at too high an angle, and the machine rose too rapidly on leaving the wire.
321 san+francisco After going a few yards it slid back as if coming down an inclined plane, at such an angle that the point of the tail struck the ground and was broken. After going a few yards it slid back as if coming down an inclined plane, at such an angle that the point of the tail struck the ground and was broken.
322 san+francisco The tail was repaired and set at a smaller angle. The tail was repaired and set at a smaller angle.
323 san+francisco The steam was again got up, and the machine started down the wire, and, upon reaching the point of self-detachment, it gradually rose until it reached the farther end of the room, striking a hole in the canvas placed to stop it. The steam was again got up, and the machine started down the wire, and, upon reaching the point of self-detachment, it gradually rose until it reached the farther end of the room, striking a hole in the canvas placed to stop it.
324 san+francisco In experiments the machine flew well, when rising as much as one in seven. In experiments the machine flew well, when rising as much as  in .
325 san+francisco The late Reverend J. Riste, Esquire, lace manufacturer, Northcote Spicer, Esquire, J. Toms, Esquire, and others witnessed experiments. The late Reverend  , , lace manufacturer,  , ,  , , and others witnessed experiments.
326 san+francisco Mister Marriatt, late of the San Francisco News Letter brought down from London Mister Ellis, the then leasee of Cremorne Gardens, Mister Partridge, and Lieutenant Gale, the aeronaut, to witness experiments. , late of the     brought down from   , the then leasee of  ,  , and  , the aeronaut, to witness experiments.
327 san+francisco Mister Ellis offered to construct a covered way at Cremorne for experiments. offered to construct a covered way at Cremorne for experiments.
328 san+francisco Mr Stringfellow repaired to Cremorne, but not much better accommodations than he had at home were provided, owing to unfulfilled engagement as to room. Mr  repaired to , but not much better accommodations than he had at home were provided, owing to unfulfilled engagement as to room.
329 san+francisco Mister Stringfellow was preparing for departure when a party of gentlemen unconnected with the Gardens begged to see an experiment, and finding them able to appreciate his endeavours, he got up steam and started the model down the wire. was preparing for departure when a party of gentlemen unconnected with the  begged to see an experiment, and finding them able to appreciate his endeavours, he got up steam and started the model down the wire.
330 san+francisco When it arrived at the spot where it should leave the wire it appeared to meet with some obstruction, and threatened to come to the ground, but it soon recovered itself and darted off in as fair a flight as it was possible to make at a distance of about , where it was stopped by the canvas. When it arrived at the spot where it should leave the wire it appeared to meet with some obstruction, and threatened to come to the ground, but it soon recovered itself and darted off in as fair a flight as it was possible to make at a distance of about , where it was stopped by the canvas.
331 san+francisco Having now demonstrated the practicability of making a steam-engine fly, and finding nothing but a pecuniary loss and little honour, this experimenter rested for a long time, satisfied with what he had effected. Having  demonstrated the practicability of making a steam-engine fly, and finding nothing but a pecuniary loss and little honour, this experimenter rested for a long time, satisfied with what he had effected.
332 san+francisco The subject, however, had to him special charms, and he still contemplated the renewal of his experiments. The subject, however, had to him special charms, and he still contemplated the renewal of his experiments.
333 san+francisco The U.S. Navy had been interested in naval aviation since the turn of the 20th century. The   had been interested in naval aviation since      .
334 san+francisco In August 1910 Jacob Earl Fickel did the first experimenting with Glenn Curtiss shooting a gun from an airplane. In      did the  experimenting with   shooting a gun from an airplane.
335 san+francisco In 1910–1911, the Navy conducted experiments which proved the practicality of carrier-based aviation. In –, the  conducted experiments which proved the practicality of carrier-based aviation.
336 san+francisco On November 14, 1910, near Hampton Roads, Virginia, civilian pilot Eugene Ely took off from a wooden platform installed on the scout cruiser "USS Birmingham" (CL-2). On    near    civilian pilot   took off from a wooden platform installed on the scout cruiser "USS Birmingham" (CL-2).
337 san+francisco He landed safely on shore a few minutes later. He lnded sfely on shore    lter.
338 san+francisco Ely proved several months later that it was also possible to land on a ship. proved    that it was also possible to land on a ship.
339 san+francisco On January 18, 1911, he landed on a platform attached to the American cruiser "USS Pennsylvania" (ACR-4) in San Francisco harbor. On    he landed on a platform attached to the  cruiser "USS Pennsylvania" (ACR-4) in   harbor.
340 san+francisco Upon the awakening of Optimus Prime in Dreamwave's first Generation One mini-series, the Aerialbots were among the Autobots summoned by Optimus to rescue the remaining Autobots, who had been turned into mind-controlled weapons of mass destruction by a human arms dealer. Upon the awakening of  Prime in Dreamwave's  Generation  mini-series, the  were among the  summoned by  to rescue the remaining , who had been turned into mind-controlled weapons of mass destruction by a human arms dealer.
341 san+francisco During a subsequent battle with the Decepticons in San Francisco, the Aerialbots, merged as Superion, battled Devastator, but lost when the Decepticon Seekers, hit their weak points, forcing them to separate. During a subsequent battle with the  in  , the Aerialbots, merged as Superion, battled , but lost when the  , hit their weak points, forcing them to separate.
342 san+francisco They then sacrificed themselves to stop an incoming nuclear missile, launched by rogue elements in the U.S. military to eradicate both factions of Cybertronians in one fell swoop. They then sacrificed themselves to stop an incoming nuclear missile, launched by rogue elements in the  military to eradicate both factions of  in  fell swoop.
343 san+francisco Some economic analysts consider that, ultimately, the catastrophe will improve Japan's economy, with increased job availability during restoration efforts. Some economic analysts consider that, ultimately, the catastrophe will improve 's economy, with increased job availability during restoration efforts.
344 san+francisco An analyst at JPMorgan Chase, citing the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake in the San Francisco Bay Area and the Southern California 1994 Northridge earthquake, noted that natural disasters "do eventually boost output." An analyst at JPMorgan Chase, citing the    earthquake in the     and the     earthquake, noted that natural disasters "do eventually boost output."
345 san+francisco An analyst at Société Générale anticipated that Japan's economy will decline in March 2011 but will revive powerfully in subsequent months. An analyst at   anticipated that 's economy will decline in   but will revive powerfully in subsequent .
346 san+francisco After the Kobe earthquake, industrial output dropped 2.6%, but increased by 2.2% the next month and 1% the following month. After   earthquake, industrial output dropped 2.6%, but increased by 2.2%    and 1%   .
347 san+francisco Japan's economy then accelerated substantially through the next two years, at more than its former rate. 's economy n accelerated substantially through    , at more than its former rate.
348 san+francisco Others are of the opinion that the catastrophe will harm the economy. Others are of the opinion that the catastrophe will harm the economy.
349 san+francisco Some analysts have argued that those who predict that the reconstruction effort could help Japan's economy have fallen prey to the broken window fallacy. Some analysts have argued that those who predict that the reconstruction effort could help 's economy have fallen prey to the broken window fallacy.
350 san+francisco On 24 March, an executive of Bank of Japan's Osaka branch said he expected "a big decline in production, [leading to] an adjustment in the economy initially with exports and inventories falling and imports rising... Demand created by reconstruction projects will emerge after that." On  , an executive    's  branch said he expected "a big decline in production, [leading to] an adjustment in the economy initially with exports and inventories falling and imports rising... Demand created by reconstruction projects will emerge after that."
351 san+francisco The government said that reconstruction in the ongoing year could raise GDP by 5 trillion yen to 7.75 trillion yen. The government said that reconstruction in    could raise GDP by 5 trillion yen to 7.75 trillion yen.
352 san+francisco Air China recently introduced its new Airbus A330-300 aircraft for long haul operations beginning with services to Düsseldorf, Germany for the summer 2011 schedule. introduced its new bus  aircraft for long haul operations beginning with services to ,  for    schedule.
353 san+francisco These aircraft provide the same two-class cabin standard as the Airbus 330-200 except that the economy cabin has no seat-back entertainment system installed (with the exception of the first two economy rows which also have increased legroom). These aircraft provide the same -class cabin standard as the   except that the economy cabin has no seat-back entertainment system installed (with the exception of the   economy rows which also have increased legroom).
354 san+francisco Düsseldorf is now the third German destination on the Air China network. is  the   destination on the Air  network.
355 san+francisco The airline will also launch a new Beijing-Milan service starting 15 June 2011. The airline will also launch a new  service starting   .
356 san+francisco This service will complement the airline's existing Shanghai Pudong-Milan service. This service will complement the airline's existing  Pudong-Milan service.
357 san+francisco Deliveries of the carrier's 19 new Boeing 777-300ERs will commence in mid-2011, and Air China stated that the aircraft will form the "backbone of its future longhaul operations". Deliveries of the carrier's  new  777-300ERs will commence in mid-2011, and   stated that the aircraft will form the "backbone of its  longhaul operations".
358 san+francisco The new Boeing 777-300ER will ultimately replace Boeing 747–400 on routes to U.S. destinations such as Los Angeles, New York, and San Francisco, but it is expected to first enter service on flights to Paris from March 2012. The new  777-300ER will ultimately replace  – on routes to  destinations such as  ,  , and  , but it is expected to  enter service on flights to  from  .
359 san+francisco The carrier relaunched services from Beijing to Athens with a stopover in Munich using an A330-300 starting 15 May 2011. The carrier relaunched services from  to  with a stopover in  using an A330-300 starting   .
360 san+francisco Air China has announced that it will commence a second daily Beijing-Los Angeles service with a Boeing 747-400M, while the existing daily Los Angeles service is to be upgraded to Boeing 747-400. hs nnounced tht it will commence   dily   service with   747-400M, while the existing dily   service is to be upgrded to  747-400.
361 san+francisco The Boeing 777-300ER will replace both aircraft once sufficient numbers enter the fleet. The  777-300ER will replace both aircraft  sufficient numbers enter the fleet.
362 san+francisco Air China also announced that it will expand its operations in India with a Beijing-Mumbai route to plan to begin in September 2011 while the existing Delhi route is upgraded to A330. Air  also announced that it will expand its operations in  with a  route to plan to begin in   while the existing  route is upgraded to A330.
363 san+francisco The airline, however, will launch service to Mumbai from Chengdu effective 2 May 2012. The airline, however, will launch service to  from  effective   01.
364 san+francisco The airline announced that it plans to use the Boeing 777-300ER on one of its two daily Beijing-Los Angeles flights beginning 1 February 2012. The airline announced that it plans to use the  777-300ER on  of its  daily   flights    202.
365 san+francisco Beginning late-2012 and in early 2013, the airline plans to replace the New York and San Francisco routes from the currently operated Boeing 747-400 to the Boeing 777-300ER. Beginning late-2012 and in  , the airline plans to replace the   and   routes from the  operated  747-400 to the  777-300ER.
366 san+francisco At 9:09 a.m. the pilots of North Dakota Air Guard F-16s of the 119th Fighter Wing were standing by, ready to launch, at Langley AFB, Virginia, located about 130 miles southeast of Washington, DC. At 9:09 a.m. the pilots of     F-16s of the 119th Fighter Wing were standing by, ready to launch, at  , , located about  miles southeast of , .
367 san+francisco They were at their battle stations because of a growing general concern about the situation that morning. They were at their battle stations because of a growing general concern about the situation that morning.
368 san+francisco Seven minutes later the FAA reported that United Airlines Flight 93, outbound from Newark, New Jersey, to San Francisco, California, might also have been hijacked. the  reported that   Flight , outbound from ,  , to  , , might also have been hijacked.
369 san+francisco The FAA notified the Northeast Air Defense Sector eight minutes later that American Flight 77, a flight from Dulles International Airport, Virginia, near Washington, DC, to Los Angeles, California, also appeared to be the victim of hijackers. The  notified the        that  Flight , a flight from   port, , near , , to  , , also appeared to be the victim of hijackers.
370 san+francisco At 9:24 a.m. At 9:24 a.m.
371 san+francisco Colonel Marr ordered three F-16s (two alert aircraft and a spare) scrambled from Langley to check out an unidentified intermittent aircraft track heading toward Washington DC. Colonel  ordered  F-16s ( alert aircraft and a spare) scrambled from  to check out an unidentified intermittent aircraft track heading toward  .
372 san+francisco In six minutes the Langley F-16s were airborne. In   the  F-16s were airborne.
373 san+francisco The international long-haul fleet consists of Boeing 767-300ER, Boeing 777-200ER, Boeing 777-300ER and Boeing 747-400 jet aircraft. The international long-haul fleet consists of  767-300ER,  777-200ER,  777-300ER and  747-400 jet aircraft.
374 san+francisco 5 Boeing 767 aircraft operate routes to many outer Pacific Islands, Honolulu and Los Angeles, Osaka, and some flights to Australia including all those to Perth. aircraft operate routes to many outer  ,  and  , , and some flights to  including all those to .
375 san+francisco They all have recently been retrofitted with winglets to increase fuel economy. They all have  been retrofitted with winglets to increase fuel economy.
376 san+francisco 8 777-200ER aircraft operate on the majority of the long-haul routes, including Asia, North America, London via Hong Kong, and some Pacific Islands. 5 777-300ER aircraft service London via Los Angeles and Australia. 777-200ER aircraft operate on the majority of the long-haul routes, including ,  ,  via  , and some  . 777-300ER aircraft service  via   and .
377 san+francisco The 747-400 fleet has been reduced over recent years from 8 to 2 aircraft - these operate to San Francisco, and occasionally to Vancouver and Australia, and will be retired in 2015. The 747-400 fleet has been reduced over       aircraft - these operate   , and occasionally   and , and will be retired in 015.
378 san+francisco Upon the awakening of Optimus Prime in Dreamwave's first Generation 1 mini-series, the Aerialbots were among the Autobots summoned by Optimus to rescue the remaining Autobots, who had been turned into mind-controlled weapons of mass destruction by a human arms dealer. Upon the awakening of  Prime in Dreamwave's  Generation  mini-series, the Aerialbots were among the  summoned by  to rescue the remaining , who had been turned into mind-controlled weapons of mass destruction by a human arms dealer.
379 san+francisco During a subsequent battle with the Decepticons in San Francisco, the Aerialbots, merged into Superion, sacrificed themselves to stop an incoming nuclear missile, launched by rogue elements in the U.S. military to eradicate both factions of Cybertronians in one fell swoop. During a subsequent battle with the  in  , the Aerialbots, merged into Superion, sacrificed themselves to stop an incoming nuclear missile, launched by rogue elements in the  military to eradicate both factions of  in  fell swoop.
380 san+francisco USAAF aircraft bombed Japan for the first time in mid-April 1942. aircraft bombed  for the  time in  .
381 san+francisco In an operation conducted primarily to raise morale in the United States, 16 B-25 Mitchell medium bombers were carried from San Francisco to within range of Japan on the aircraft carrier . In an operation conducted primarily to raise morale in the  ,  B-25  medium bombers were carried from   to within range of  on the aircraft carrier .
382 san+francisco These aircraft were launched on 18 April, and individually bombed targets in Tokyo, Yokohama, Yokosuka, Nagoya and Kobe. These aircraft were launched on  , and individually bombed targets in , , ,  and .
383 san+francisco The Japanese air defense units were taken by surprise, and all the B-25s escaped without serious damage. The  air defense units were taken by surprise, and all the  escaped without serious damage.
384 san+francisco The aircraft then continued to China and the Soviet Union, though several crashed in Japanese-held territory after running out of fuel. The aircraft then continued to  and the  , though several crashed in  territory after running out of fuel.
385 san+francisco Japanese casualties were 50 killed and over 400 wounded. casualties were  killed and over  wounded.
386 san+francisco About 200 houses were also destroyed. About  houses were also destroyed.
387 san+francisco The U.S. Post Office also adopted the DH-4 to carry airmail. The    also adopted the DH-4 to carry airmail.
388 san+francisco In 1919, the DH-4B was standardised by the US Post Office, being modified to be flown from the rear cockpit with a 400 lb (180 kg) watertight mail compartment replacing the forward cockpit. In , the DH-4B was standardised by the   , being modified to be flown from the rear cockpit with a  lb ( kg) watertight mail compartment replacing the forward cockpit.
389 san+francisco The airmail DH-4B were later modified with revised landing gear and an enlarged rudder. The airmail DH-4B were later modified with revised landing gear and an enlarged rudder.
390 san+francisco DH-4s were used to establish a coast-to-coast, transcontinental airmail service, between San Francisco and New York, a distance of 2,680 mi (4,310 km), involving night flight, the first services starting on 21 August 1924. DH-4s were used to establish a coast-to-coast, transcontinental airmail service, between   and  , a distance of  mi ( km), involving night flight, the  services starting on   .
391 san+francisco The DH-4 continued in Post Office service until 1927, when the last airmail routes were passed to private contractors. The  continued in Post Office service until , when the last airmail routes were passed to private contractors.
392 san+francisco Scheduled Transcontinental Air Mail service flown between New York (Hazelhurst Field, L.I.) and San Francisco (Crissy Field) began on September 8, 1920, over a route laid out in July and August by Eddie Rickenbacker and Bert Acosta who had helped pilot the first experimental [http://content.cdlib.org/ark:/13030/kt909nd5zq/?layout=metadata&brand=calisphere through flight] carrying about 100 letters which landed at Durant Field located at 82nd Ave and E. 14th St. in East Oakland. Scheduled Transcontinental Air Mail service flown between   (  ) and   ( ) began on    over a route laid out in  and  by   and   who had helped pilot the  experimental [http://content.cdlib.org/ark:/13030/kt909nd5zq/?layout=metadata&brand=calisphere through flight] carrying about  letters which landed at Durant  located at 2nd Ave and E.  St. in  .
393 san+francisco The transcontinental mails were originally flown only during daylight hours while being entrained at night, although on February 22, 1921, a nighttime leg on this route (Omaha to Chicago) was flown for the first time with Jack Knight as the pilot. The transcontinental mails were originally flown only during daylight  while being entrained at night although on    a nighttime leg on this route ( to ) was flown for the  time with   as the pilot.
394 san+francisco The first daily Transcontinental Air Mail service involving both day and night flying over the entire route was opened on July 1, 1924, which reduced the time of the trip from more than 70 hours to a schedule of 34 hours 46 minutes Westbound, and 32 hours 3 minutes Eastbound.. The  daily    service involving both  and night flying over the entire route was opened on   924 which reduced the time of the trip from     to a schedule of     Westbound and     Eastbound..
395 san+francisco In addition to New York and San Francisco, the route included thirteen intermediate stops where mails were exchanged and aircrew relieved. In addition to   and  , the route included  intermediate stops where mails were exchanged and aircrew relieved.
396 san+francisco This was accomplished at airfields located at Bellefonte (PA), Cleveland (OH), Bryan, (OH), Chicago (IL), Iowa City (IA), Omaha (NE), North Platte (NE), Cheyenne (WY), Rawlins (WY), Rock Springs (WY), Salt Lake City (UT), Elko (NV) and Reno (NV). This was accomplished at airfields located at  (PA),  (OH), , (OH),  (IL),   (),  (NE),   (NE),  (WY),  (WY),   (WY),    (),  (NV) and  (NV).
397 san+francisco In recent years, the Zeppelin company has reentered the airship business. In  , the  company has reentered the airship business.
398 san+francisco Their new model, designated the Zeppelin NT, made its maiden flight on 18 September 1997. Their new model, designated the  , made its maiden flight on   .
399 san+francisco As of 2009, there were four NT aircraft flying, a fifth completed in March 2009 and an expanded NT-14 (14,000 cubic meters of helium, capable of carrying 19 passengers) under construction. As of , there were   aircraft flying, a  completed in   and an expanded -14 ( cubic meters of helium, capable of carrying  passengers) under construction.
400 san+francisco One was sold to a Japanese company, and was planned to be flown to Japan in the summer of 2004. was sold to a  company, and was planned to be flown to  in    .
401 san+francisco Due to delays getting permission from the Russian government, the company decided to transport the airship to Japan by ship. Due to delays getting permission from the  government, the company decided to transport the airship to  by ship.
402 san+francisco One of the four NT craft is in South Africa carrying diamond detection equipment from De Beers, an application at which the very stable low vibration NT platform excels. of the   craft is in   carrying diamond detection equipment from De Beers, an application at which the very stable low vibration  platform excels.
403 san+francisco The project included design adaptations for high heat operation and desert climate, as well as a separate mooring mast and a very heavy mooring truck. The project included design adaptations for high heat operation and desert climate, as well as a separate mooring mast and a very heavy mooring truck.
404 san+francisco NT-4 belongs to Airship Ventures of Moffett Field, Mountain View in the San Francisco Bay Area, and provides sight-seeing tours belongs to    Mfett ,   in the    , and provides sight-seeing tours
405 san+francisco On November 22, 2009 Al Harris suffered a potentially career-ending injury to the outside of his left knee in a home game against the San Francisco 49ers. On      suffered a potentially career-ending injury to the outside of his left knee in a home game against the   49ers.
406 san+francisco Harris fell to the ground while trailing Niners wide receiver Michael Crabtree; no contact caused the injury, Harris reported his foot simply 'got caught in the ground'. fell to the ground while trailing  wide receiver  ; no contact caused the injury,  reported his foot simply 'got caught in the ground'.
407 san+francisco Harris tore the anterior cruciate ligament, the lateral collateral ligament, the iliotibial band, the fibular collateral ligament, and the lateral hamstring. tore the anterior cruciate ligament, the lateral collateral ligament, the iliotibial band, the fibular collateral ligament, and the lateral hamstring.
408 san+francisco His knee was surgically reconstructed eight days later and Harris has been working at rehabilitating his knee since. His knee was surgically reconstructed    and  has been working at rehabilitating his knee since.
409 san+francisco In the 1930s Pan American Airways established a seaplane port along the fill that led to the Alameda Mole. In      established a seaplane port along  fill that led to   .
410 san+francisco This was the original home base for the famous China Clipper flying boat. This was the original home base for the famous  Clipper flying boat.
411 san+francisco In 1929, the University of California established the San Francisco Airdrome located near the current Webster Street tube as a public airport. In , the    established the    located near the    tube as a public airport.
412 san+francisco The Bay Airdrome had its gala christening party in 1930. The Bay Airdrome had its gala christening party in .
413 san+francisco The airfield was a busy place, as an early home base for Coastal Air Freight, Varney Air Lines, West Coast Air Transport, Western Air Express, the transbay Air Ferries, and Boeing's Pacific Air Transport. The airfield was a busy place, as an early home base for   ,   ,    , ern  , the transbay  , and 's   .
414 san+francisco The Airdrome was closed in 1941 when its air traffic interfered with the newly built Naval Air Station Alameda (NAS Alameda). The  was closed in  when its air traffic interfered with the newly built     ( ).
415 san+francisco With the advent of World War II, a vast stretch of the marshy area southwest of the Alameda Mole was filled and the NAS Alameda established. With the advent of   , a vast stretch of the marshy area southwest of the   was filled and the   established.
416 san+francisco This major Naval facility included a large airfield, as well as docks for several aircraft carriers. This major Naval facility included a large airfield, as well as docks for several aircraft carriers.
417 san+francisco It closed in 1997. It closed in .
418 san+francisco On April 27, 1964, the massive "Good Friday Earthquake" killed 133 people and destroyed several villages and portions of large coastal communities, mainly by the resultant tsunamis and landslides. On    the massive "  Earthquake" killed  people and destroyed several villages and portions of large coastal communities mainly by the resultant tsunamis and landslides.
419 san+francisco It was the third most powerful earthquake in the recorded history of the world, with a moment magnitude of 9.2. It was the  most powerful earthquake in the recorded history of the world, with a moment magnitude of .
420 san+francisco It was over one thousand times more powerful than the 1989 San Francisco earthquake. It was over   times more powerful than the    earthquake.
421 san+francisco The time of day (5:36 pm), time of year and location of the epicenter were all cited as factors in potentially sparing thousands of lives, particularly in Anchorage. The time of  (5:36 pm), time of  and location of the epicenter were all cited as factors in potentially sparing thousands of lives, particularly in .
422 san+francisco During this time the flight crew had several discussions with the company dispatcher about whether to divert to Los Angeles, or continue on as planned to San Francisco. During this time the flight crew had several discussions with the company dispatcher about whether to divert to  , or continue on as planned to  .
423 san+francisco Ultimately the pilots chose to divert. Ultimately the pilots chose to divert.
424 san+francisco Later the NTSB found that while "the flight crew's decision to divert the flight to Los Angeles...was prudent and appropriate", nonetheless "Alaska Airlines dispatch personnel appear to have attempted to influence the flight crew to continue to San Francisco...instead of diverting to Los Angeles." Later the  found that while "the flight crew's decision to divert the flight to  ...was prudent and appropriate", nonetheless "  dispatch personnel appear to have attempted to influence the flight crew to continue to  ...instead of diverting to  ."
425 san+francisco Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) transcripts indicate that the dispatcher was concerned about the effect on the schedule ("flow") should the flight divert. Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) transcripts indicate that the dispatcher was concerned about the effect on the schedule ("flow") should the flight divert.
426 san+francisco Fifty people on board were bound for Seattle, 47 passengers and the three flight attendants. people on board were bound for ,  passengers and the  flight attendants.
427 san+francisco 32 passengers aboard the plane had San Francisco as their final destination, three had Eugene, Oregon, as their final destination, and one passenger was headed for Fairbanks, Alaska. passengers aboard the plane had   as their final destination,  had , , as their final destination, and  passenger was headed for Fairbanks, .
428 san+francisco Of the passengers, 1 was Mexican and 1 was British; the rest were US citizens. Of the passengers,  was  and  was ; the rest were  citizens.
429 san+francisco "Alaska Airlines Flight 261", a McDonnell Douglas MD-83 aircraft, experienced a fatal accident on January 31, 2000 over the Pacific Ocean about 2.7 miles (4.3 km) north of Anacapa Island, California. "  Flight " a   MD-83 aircraft experienced a fatal accident on    over the   about  miles ( km) north of   .
430 san+francisco The two pilots, three cabin crewmembers, and 83 passengers on board were killed and the aircraft was destroyed. The  pilots,  cabin crewmembers, and  passengers on board were killed and the aircraft was destroyed.
431 san+francisco Alaska 261 was a scheduled international passenger flight from Lic. Gustavo Díaz Ordaz International Airport in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, to Seattle-Tacoma International Airport in Seattle, Washington,  with an intermediate stop at San Francisco International Airport in San Francisco, California. was a scheduled international passenger flight from Lic.     in  , , to    in , ,  with an intermediate stop at     in  , .
432 san+francisco Beginning in the late 19th century, Judson Powder Works manufactured dynamite at the northwest foot of the hill. Beginning in    ,    manufactured dynamite at  northwest foot of  hill.
433 san+francisco The company had been forced to move from San Francisco and then nearby Fleming Point in Berkeley because of continuing accidental explosions. The company had been forced to move from   and then nearby   in  because of continuing accidental explosions.
434 san+francisco The eucaluptus trees now on the hill were planted by the dynamite manufacturers to catch debris and muffle sound of these explosion. The eucaluptus trees  on the hill were planted by the dynamite manufacturers to catch debris and muffle sound of these explosion.
435 san+francisco The stop on the transcontinental railroad tracks just to the west was called Nobel Station, after the inventor of dynamite. The stop on the transcontinental railroad tracks just to the  was called Nobel Station, after the inventor of dynamite.
436 san+francisco Newly promoted Lt. (j.g.) Harris saw his last action on the afternoon of November 12, 1942, when 21 Japanese twin-engined torpedo planes (Mitsubishi G4M1 "Betties") attacked "San Francisco"s task group near Lunga Point. Newly promoted Lt. (j.g.)  saw his last action on the afternoon of    when   twin-engined torpedo planes ( G4M1 "Betties") attacked " "s task group near  .
437 san+francisco While commanding the antiaircraft battery on the aft machine gun platform, he directed the fire of his 20-millimeter guns on an approaching Japanese torpedo plane that had been set ablaze by gunfire from the nearby transport "McCawley" (AP-10). While commanding the antiaircraft battery on the aft machine gun platform, he directed the fire of his 20-millimeter guns on an approaching  torpedo plane that had been set ablaze by gunfire from the nearby transport "McCawley" (AP-10).
438 san+francisco Maintaining heavy fire until the Betty crashed into them, Harris and three of his gun crews died in the fiery crash. Maintaining heavy fire until the  crashed into them,  and  of his gun crews died in the fiery crash.
439 san+francisco In 1937, Lockheed formed the Alcor Aircraft Corporation in San Francisco and developed the Alcor C-6-1, an 8-place, low-wing plane that also had excellent single-engine performance. In ,  formed the    in   and developed the  C-6-1, an 8-place, low-wing plane that also had excellent single-engine performance.
440 san+francisco Unfortunately, the prototyp C-6-1 was lost over San Francisco Bay. Unfortunately, the prototyp C-6-1 was lost over   .
441 san+francisco During a 1938 test flight, the Alcor prototype went out of control. During a  test flight, the Alcor prototype went out of control.
442 san+francisco A pilot and a passenger bailed out, "leaving the plane to descend in slow circles until it hit the waters of the Golden Gate and sank, as related in the 1957 Lockheed history, "Of Men and Stars." A pilot and a passenger bailed out, "leaving the plane to descend in slow circles until it hit the waters of the Golden Gate and sank, as related in the   history, "Of Men and Stars."
443 san+francisco The Alcor company folded in 1939. The Alcor company folded in .
444 san+francisco At an aircraft show in San Francisco, thousands admired the little S-1 aircraft, but not a single person ordered the $2,500 plane. At an aircraft show in  , thousands admired the little  aircraft, but not a single person ordered the $2,500 plane.
445 san+francisco Only then did Allan Loughead realize that the government's sale of war surplus aircraft for as little as $300 had killed the market for new aircraft. Only then did   realize that the government's sale of war surplus aircraft for as little as $300 had killed the market for new aircraft.
446 san+francisco As a result, Loughead Aircraft closed its doors in 1920 and its assets were liquidated in 1921. As a result,   closed its doors in  and its assets were liquidated in .
447 san+francisco Deposits on that first day totaled $8,780. Deposits on that   totaled $8,780.
448 san+francisco Within a year, deposits soared above $700,000 ($13.5 million in 2002 dollars). Within  yer, deposits sored bove $700,000 ($13.5 million in  dollrs).
449 san+francisco The 1906 San Francisco earthquake and fires leveled much of the city. The    earthquake and fires leveled much of the city.
450 san+francisco In the face of widespread devastation, Giannini set up a temporary bank, collecting deposits, making loans, and proclaiming that San Francisco would rise from the ashes. In the face of widespread devastation,  set up a temporary bank, collecting deposits, making loans, and proclaiming that   would rise from the ashes.
451 san+francisco Through contacts in the Los Angeles aviation community, Fred Noonan was subsequently chosen as a second navigator because there were significant additional factors which had to be dealt with while using celestial navigation for aircraft. Through contcts in the   vition community,   ws subsequently chosen s   nvigtor becuse there were significnt dditionl fctors which hd to be delt with while using celestil nvigtion for ircrft.
452 san+francisco He had vast experience in both marine (he was a licensed ship's captain) and flight navigation. He had vast experience in both marine (he was a licensed ship's captain) and flight navigation.
453 san+francisco Noonan had recently left Pan Am, where he established most of the company's China Clipper seaplane routes across the Pacific. had  left  , where he established most of the company's   seaplane routes across the .
454 san+francisco Noonan had also been responsible for training Pan American's navigators for the route between San Francisco and Manila. had also been responsible for training  's navigators for the route between   and .
455 san+francisco The original plans were for Noonan to navigate from Hawaii to Howland Island, a particularly difficult portion of the flight; then Manning would continue with Earhart to Australia and she would proceed on her own for the remainder of the project. The original plans were for  to navigate from  to  , a particularly difficult portion of the flight; then  would continue with  to  and she would proceed on her own for the remainder of the project.
456 san+francisco American Airlines Flight 910, a four-engine DC-6 propliner, departed San Francisco for Dallas at 23:05 on June 27, and made three scheduled stops on its way to Dallas-Love Field. Flight , a four-engine  propliner, departed   for  at 23:05 on  , and made  scheduled stops on its way to -Love Field.
457 san+francisco On board was a flight crew of three, Captain G.H. Woolweaver, First Officer James R. Poe, Flight Engineer John Barrett, and a cabin crew of two flight attendants, Arlene Siebert and Anita Schmidt. On board was a flight crew of , Captain  ,  Officer   , Flight Engineer  , and a cabin crew of  flight attendants,   and  .
458 san+francisco 55 passengers were on board for the final segment of the flight from El Paso to Dallas. passengers were on board for the final segment of the flight from   to .
459 san+francisco "American Airlines Flight 910", a four-engine Douglas DC-6 propliner, collided in mid-air with a single engine Temco Swift on final approach to Dallas Love Field on June 28, 1952, over Dallas, Texas. "  Flight " a four-engine  DC-6 propliner collided in mid-air with a single engine   on final approach to    on    over  .
460 san+francisco The DC-6 was carrying 55 passengers and 5 crew members from San Francisco, California. The  was carrying  passengers and  crew members from  , .
461 san+francisco The DC-6 landed with no injuries to any of its 60 occupants, while both occupants of the two-person Swift died when their aircraft impacted the ground. The  landed with no injuries to any of its  occupants, while both occupants of the two-person  died when their aircraft impacted the ground.
462 san+francisco ARES has provided essential supplemental emergency communications innumerable times throughout the league's history. has provided essential supplemental emergency communications innumerable times throughout the league's history.
463 san+francisco In 1989, hundreds of amateurs responded to the Loma Preita Earthquake in the San Francisco Bay area putting in over 3000 volunteer hours in the first week. In , hundreds of amateurs responded to     in     area putting in over  volunteer  in   .
464 san+francisco In 2005, ARES, with hundreds of volunteer amateur radio operators, provided key communications assistance to recovery organizations and officials coordinating Hurricane Katrina disaster relief. In , ARES, with hundreds of volunteer amateur radio operators, provided key communications assistance to recovery organizations and officials coordinating Hurricane  disaster relief.
465 san+francisco On December 8, 1941 rumors of an enemy carrier off the coast led to the closing of schools in Oakland, California,  a blackout enforced by local wardens and radio silence followed that evening. On    rumors of an enemy carrier off the coast led to the closing of schools in    a blackout enforced by local wardens and radio silence followed that evening.
466 san+francisco The reports reaching Washington of an attack on San Francisco were regarded as credible. The reports reaching  of an attack on   were regarded as credible.
467 san+francisco The affair was described as a test but Lt. Gen. John L. DeWitt of the Western Defense Command said  “Last night there were planes over this community. The affair was described as a test but Lt. Gen.    of the    said  “  there were planes over this community.
468 san+francisco They were enemy planes! They were enemy planes!
469 san+francisco I mean Japanese planes! I mean  planes!
470 san+francisco And they were tracked out to sea. And they were tracked out to sea.
471 san+francisco You think it was a hoax? You think it was a hoax?
472 san+francisco It is damned nonsense for sensible people to assume that the Army and Navy would practice such a hoax on San Francisco.” It is damned nonsense for sensible people to assume that the  and  would practice such a hoax on  .”
473 san+francisco Rumors continued on the west coast in the following days. Rumors continued on  west coast in   .
474 san+francisco An alert of a similar nature occurred in the Northeast on December 9. An alert of a similar nature occurred in the Northeast on  .
475 san+francisco At noon advices were received that hostile planes were only two hours’ distance away. At noon advices were received that hostile planes were only  ’ distance away.
476 san+francisco Although there was no general hysteria, fighter aircraft from Mitchel Field on Long Island took the air to intercept the "raiders". Although there was no general hysteria, fighter aircraft from   on   took the air to intercept the "raiders".
477 san+francisco Wall Street had its worst sell off since the fall of France, school children in New York City were sent home and several radio stations left the air. Wall Street had its worst sell off since the  of , school children in    were sent home and several radio stations left the air.
478 san+francisco In Boston police shifted heavy stores of guns and ammunition from storage vaults to stations throughout the city, and industrial establishments were advised to prepare for a raid. In  police shifted heavy stores of guns and ammunition from storage vaults to stations throughout the city, and industrial establishments were advised to prepare for a raid.
479 san+francisco In the fall of 1941, the 2nd American Volunteer Group was equipped with 33 Lockheed Hudson (A-28) and 33 Douglas DB-7 (A-20) bombers originally built for Britain but acquired by the U.S. Army as part of the Lend-Lease program passed earlier in the year. In    ,      was equipped with    (A-28) and  Douglas DB-7 (A-20) bombers originally built for  but acquired by    as part    program passed earlier in  .
480 san+francisco The Central Aircraft Manufacturing Company, fronting for the Chinese and American governments, recruited 82 pilots and 359 ground crewmen from the U.S. Army in the fall of 1941, and an undetermined number, including one pilot, actually sailed for Asia aboard "Noordam" and "Bloemfontein" of the Java-Pacific line. The    , fronting for   and  governments, recruited  pilots and  ground crewmen from    in    , and an undetermined number, including  pilot, actually sailed for  aboard "Noordam" and ""    line.
481 san+francisco Other pilots reported to San Francisco, and were scheduled to depart aboard the Lockheed Hudsons on 10 December. Other pilots reported to  , and were scheduled to depart aboard the   on  .
482 san+francisco The Douglas DB-7s, meanwhile, were to have gone by freighter to Africa, where they would be assembled and ferried to China. The Douglas DB-7s, meanwhile, were to have gone by freighter to , where they would be assembled and ferried to .
483 san+francisco However, the attack on Pearl Harbor caused the program to be aborted. However, the attack on   caused the program to be aborted.
484 san+francisco The vessels at sea were diverted to Australia, the aircraft were taken back into American service, and most or all of the personnel likewise rejoined the military, either in Australia or in the U.S. The vessels at sea were diverted to , the aircraft were taken back into  service, and most or all of the personnel likewise rejoined the military, either in  or in the
485 san+francisco "Andrew Cowper Lawson" (July 25, 1861-June 16, 1952) was a professor of geology  at the University of California, Berkeley. "  " ( , 1861-June , ) was a pressor  geology  at the   , .
486 san+francisco He was the editor and co-author of the 1908 report on the 1906 San Francisco Earthquake which became known as the "Lawson Report". He was the editor and co-author of the  report on the     which became known as the "Lawson Report".
487 san+francisco He was also the first person to identify and name the San Andreas Fault in 1895, and after the 1906 quake, the first to delineate the entire length of the San Andreas Fault which previously had been noted only in the San Francisco Bay Area. He was also the  person to identify and name the    in , and after the  quake, the  to delineate the entire length of the    which  had been noted only in the    .
488 san+francisco He also named the Franciscan Complex. He also named the Franciscan Complex.
489 san+francisco His plans for meeting with Gómez and the Government in Arms never took place. His plans for meeting with  and the Government in Arms never took place.
490 san+francisco On December 7, 1896, in the vicinity of Punta Brava, Maceo was advancing into the farm of San Pedro, only accompanied by his personal escort (two or three men), the physician of his Headquarters, the Brigade General José Miró Argenter and a small troop of no more than twenty men. On    in the vicinity of    was advancing into the farm of   only accompanied by his personal escort ( or  men) the physician of his Headquarters the Brigade General    and a small troop of no more than  men.
491 san+francisco When they attempted to cut a fence for facilitating the march of horses through those lands, they were detected by a strong Spanish column, which opened an intense fire. When they attempted to cut a fence for facilitating the  of horses through those lands, they were detected by a strong  column, which opened an intense fire.
492 san+francisco Maceo was hit by two shots, one in the chest and another that broke his jaw and penetrated his skull. was hit by  shots,  in the chest and another that broke his jaw and penetrated his skull.
493 san+francisco His companions could not carry him because of the intensity of the firefight and Maceo's size. His companions could not carry him because of the intensity of the firefight and 's size.
494 san+francisco The only rebel who stayed by him was the Lieutenant Francisco Gómez (known as Panchito), son of Máximo Gómez, who faced the Spanish column for the sole purpose of protecting the body of his general. The only rebel who stayed by him was the Lieutenant   (known as Panchito), son of  , who faced the  column for the sole purpose of protecting the body of his general.
495 san+francisco After being shot several times, the Spaniards killed Gómez with machete strikes, leaving both bodies abandoned, not knowing the identity of the fallen. After being shot several times, the Spaniards killed  with machete strikes, leaving both bodies abandoned, not knowing the identity of the fallen.
496 san+francisco When the egg sac hatches, the general, now entirely engulfed in flames, jumps out of the fire, refusing to let Ross leave the basement alive. When the egg sac hatches, the general,  entirely engulfed in flames, jumps out of the fire, refusing to let  leave the basement alive.
497 san+francisco Ross shoots it with his nail gun and the projectile sends the burning spider into the nest's egg sac, effectively destroying the nest with fire and ending the plague. shoots it with his nail gun and the projectile sends the burning spider into the nest's egg sac, effectively destroying the nest with fire and ending the plague.
498 san+francisco Delbert is able to reach Ross and get him to safety. is able to reach  and get him to safety.
499 san+francisco Having enough of the country along with the near-death experience, the Jennings family immediately move back to San Francisco, appreciating city life once more, despite minor tremors disrupting them. Having enough of the country along with the near-death experience, the  family immediately move back to  , appreciating city life  more, despite minor tremors disrupting them.
500 san+francisco Following his trip, Ardeshir continued experimenting with safes, and the business took off following the San Francisco earthquake, where the subsequent fire caused more damage than the earthquake itself. Following his trip,  continued experimenting with safes, and the business took off following the   earthquake, where the subsequent fire caused more damage than the earthquake itself.
501 san+francisco Following the publication a subsequent article in "Scientific American" (May 26, 1908) that revealed that most safes were in fact not fireproof, Ardeshir held a public demonstration to prove that the safes would protect the contents in the advent of a fire. Following the publication a subsequent article in " " (  ) that revealed that most safes were in fact not fireproof  held a public demonstration to prove that the safes would protect the contents in the advent of a fire.
502 san+francisco The demonstration was a resounding success, but it would not be until the Calcutta Dharamtalla Street fire of April 1925 when the safes demonstrated their worth in that conflagration. The demonstration was a resounding success, but it would not be until the    fire of   when the safes demonstrated their worth in that conflagration.
503 san+francisco The supreme test came in 1944, eight years after Ardeshir's death. The supreme test came in ,   after 's death.
504 san+francisco The fires that resulted from an ammunition explosion at Bombay's Victoria docks raged for days, and the loss of life and property was enormous, but the contents in many of the Godrej safes survived, including one belonging to a bank. The fires that resulted from an ammunition explosion at 's  docks raged for , and the loss of life and property was enormous, but the contents in many of the Godrej safes survived, including  belonging to a bank.
505 san+francisco One F.K.8 was purchased by a pilot named Sydney Stewart in the early 1920s. F.K. was purchased by a pilot named   in   .
506 san+francisco He took the aircraft to Buenos Aires and gave flying lessons. He took the aircraft to   and gave flying lessons.
507 san+francisco There he met Francisco Cusmanich, a Paraguayan pilot. There he met  , a  pilot.
508 san+francisco Stewart and Cusmanich offered their services to the Paraguayan government during the Revolution of 1922. and  offered their services to the  government during the Revolution of .
509 san+francisco The F.K.8 was taken to Paraguay by ship. The  was taken to  by ship.
510 san+francisco It received the name of ""Presidente Ayala"" in honor of the President of Paraguay at that time, Dr. Eusebio Ayala. It received the name of ""Presidente "" in honor of the President of  at that time, Dr.  .
511 san+francisco Both pilots flew several reconnaissance and light bombing sorties over the rebel positions. Both pilots flew several reconnaissance and light bombing sorties over the rebel positions.
512 san+francisco In one of those sorties, the F.K.8 was hit several times with ground fire causing an explosion on board, killing Stewart and Cusmanich instantly. In  of those sorties, the  was hit several times with ground fire causing an explosion on board, killing  and  instantly.
513 san+francisco In 1913 the Colorado Street Bridge was dedicated. In  the  Street Bridge was dedicated.
514 san+francisco This elegant structure curves across the Arroyo accessing Eagle Rock, Glendale, and the San Fernando Valley. This elegant structure curves across the  accessing Eagle Rock, , and the   .
515 san+francisco During the Stock Market Crash of 1929 and the subsequent Great Depression of the 1930s, the bridge was a jumping off point for many committing suicide, whereby it received the ignoble name of "Suicide bridge." During  Stock Market Crash of  and  subsequent Great Depression of  ,  bridge was a jumping off point for many committing suicide, whereby it received  ignoble name of "Suicide bridge."
516 san+francisco By the 1980s the bridge fell into disrepair as chunks of concrete dropped from its face to the armory parking lot in the Arroyo below. By    bridge fell into disrepair as chunks of concrete dropped from its face to  armory parking lot in   below.
517 san+francisco After the San Francisco – Oakland Bay Bridge failure in the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake, the Colorado Street Bridge was closed as a precautionary measure. After the   –    failure in the    earthquake, the    was closed as a precautionary measure.
518 san+francisco Eventually assistance from the Federal Bridge Repair and Replacement Fund and other local governmental agency discretionary funds provided funding for the complete restoration and seismic retrofit of the bridge. Eventually assistance from the Federal Bridge Repair and Replacement Fund and other local governmental agency discretionary funds provided funding for the complete restoration and seismic retrofit of the bridge.
519 san+francisco The total project budget amounted to $24 million, and the Colorado Street Bridge was reopened on Dec. 13, 1993, on time and on budget. The total project budget amounted to $24 million and the    was reopened on    on time and on budget.
520 san+francisco Agnos is best known for his leadership of San Francisco during the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake, and for the city's recovery. Agnos is best known for his leadership of   during the    earthquake, and for the city's recovery.
521 san+francisco The recovery effort also brought political peril to Agnos when he led the effort to tear down the Embarcadero Freeway rather than rebuild it. The recovery effort also brought political peril to  when he led the effort to tear down the Embarcadero Freeway rather than rebuild it.
522 san+francisco Agnos won a narrow vote at the city's Board of Supervisors on a 6–5 decision for the tear-down, leading the way to the opening of the San Francisco waterfront into what is widely considered one of the best outcomes from the earthquake. won a narrow vote at the city's    on a – decision for the tear-down, leading the way to the opening  the   waterfront into what is widely considered   the best outcomes from the earthquake.
523 san+francisco However, the move angered the city's Chinatown merchants and voters, who had been significant supporters of Agnos, and played a significant role in his failure to win re-election. However, the move angered the city's  merchants and voters, who had been significant supporters of Agnos, and played a significant role in his failure to win re-election.
524 san+francisco On October 13, 1944, he was transferred back to Bilibid until December, when he boarded the "hell ship" "Oryoku Maru" as one of 1620 prisoners. On    he was transferred back to  until  when he boarded the "hell ship" "Oryoku Maru" as  of  prisrs.
525 san+francisco Because the prison ship was unmarked, it was bombed December 15, 1944 at Olongapo in Subic Bay by aircraft from USS "Hornet" who mistook it for a troop transport, killing several hundred POWs. Because the prison ship was unmarked it was bombed    at  in   by aircraft from USS "Hornet" who mistook it for a troop transport killing several  .
526 san+francisco Wermuth survived the bombing and was transported by boxcar to San Fernando. survived the bombing and was transported by boxcar to  .
527 san+francisco 160 men were placed in his car and as there was no room to move or sit, were forced to stand for the duration of the 26-hour trip. men were placed in his car and as there was no room to move or sit, were forced to stand for the duration of the  trip.
528 san+francisco According to Wermuth, the man beside him died on his feet and was held in place by the crowd for the rest of the trip since there was no room to remove the corpse. According to , the man beside him died on his feet and was held in place by the crowd for the rest of the trip since there was no room to remove the corpse.
529 san+francisco In January, 1945,  he was transported to Formosa aboard the "Enoura Maru". In    he was transported to  aboard the "Enoura Maru".
530 san+francisco Wermuth received his fourth Purple Heart due to the injuries sustained when bombers from the USS "Hornet" attacked "Enoura Maru". received his  Purple Heart due to the injuries sustained when bombers from the USS "Hornet" attacked "Enoura Maru".
531 san+francisco Next he was transported to Japan, then to Pusan, Korea, then to Mukden, where his prison camp was liberated by the Russians in August, 1945. Next he was transported to  then to   then to  where his prison camp was liberated by the  in  .
532 san+francisco When he was found, he weighed , having weighed  earlier in the war. When he was found, he weighed , having weighed  earlier in the war.
533 san+francisco Wermuth returned to the United States on the transport SS "Marine Shark", arriving November 1, 1945 in San Francisco. returned to the   on the transport SS "Marine Shark" arriving   945 in  .
534 san+francisco On his return, he modestly credited the Filipino scouts for many of his exploits saying, "Ninety percent of the credit for what I did was due to them. On his return, he modestly credited the  scouts for many of his exploits saying, "Ninety percent of the credit for what I did was due to them.
535 san+francisco They're the best soldiers in the world. They're the best soldiers in the world.
536 san+francisco I just happened to be in the right place at the right time." I just happened to be in the right place at the right time."
537 san+francisco A few weeks later, AFA struck five flights simultaneously in the San Francisco area. , F struck  flights simultaneously in the   area.
538 san+francisco Alaska management suspended these flight attendants and threatened to fire any other flight attendant who would participate in CHAOS strikes. management suspended these flight attendants and threatened to fire any other flight attendant who would participate in CHAOS strikes.
539 san+francisco This forced AFA to go to court where the union's attorneys ultimately won a preliminary injunction. This forced  to go to court where the union's attorneys ultimately won a preliminary injunction.
540 san+francisco In the injunction ruling the court stated the company could not threaten, discipline or fire flight attendants for engaging in intermittent strikes. In the injunction ruling the court stated the company could not threaten, discipline or fire flight attendants for engaging in intermittent strikes.
541 san+francisco The only permissible action the company could take would be to replace the flight attendants and put them on a recall list. The only permissible action the company could take would be to replace the flight attendants and put them on a recall list.
542 san+francisco The suspended strikers were ordered reinstated with full back pay. The suspended strikers were ordered reinstated with full back pay.
543 san+francisco AFA also financially supported these strikers during the time of their suspension through the CHAOS strike donations. also financially supported these strikers during the time of their suspension through the CHAOS strike donations.
