0_atlanta atlanta The cyclone produced winds of  mph ( km/h) on  .
1_atlanta atlanta The duration of hurricane force winds ranged from –  in the  , and  sponge fishing vessels were lost due to the hurricane.
2_atlanta atlanta The cyclone caused  deaths in the islands.
3_atlanta atlanta In  , winds unroofed several homes, and canals overflowed.
4_atlanta atlanta In  , the hurricane dismantled communication lines, and "telegraph companies relayed" messages via  and .
5_atlanta atlanta High waves flooded  .
6_atlanta atlanta feet ( m) of the   causeway was eroded, and police halted traffic between   and the mainland.
7_atlanta atlanta The death toll in  was low because of well executed warnings and advisories.
8_atlanta atlanta Winds shattered numerous plate glass windows in 's business district, while signs, roofing materials, and vegetation littered streets.
9_atlanta atlanta homes lost their roofs in  and , and the oceanfront boardwalk was destroyed.
10_atlanta atlanta Precipitation damaged equipment at the   , where many windows were broken.
11_atlanta atlanta Construction standards were improved in the aftermath of the  Okeechobee Hurricane, reducing damages in subsequent storms.
12_atlanta atlanta people were treated for injuries at local hospitals.
13_atlanta atlanta was flooded by  feet ( mm) of water.
14_atlanta atlanta The hurricane produced light rainfall in  that peaked at  inches ( mm).
15_atlanta atlanta deaths were reported in .
16_atlanta atlanta Total damages in  reached $5,500,000 in the –  area.
17_atlanta atlanta tornado was a double tornado event.
18_atlanta atlanta tornado moved in from the  highway, while the other moved in from the  highway.
19_atlanta atlanta The  merged on Grove Street and destroyed everything in sight, causing wreckage pileups of up to  feet in some places.
20_atlanta atlanta The worst tornado-caused death toll in a single building in  history was at the Cooper Pants Factory.
21_atlanta atlanta The multiple story building, filled with young workers, collapsed and caught fire, killing  people.
22_atlanta atlanta At the Pacolet Mill,  workers averted a tragedy by moving to the northeast side of the building.
23_atlanta atlanta Many people sought refuge in 's department store; however, it collapsed, killing  people.
24_atlanta atlanta A strong upper level trough led to the formation  a low pressure area in the eastern   , on  .
25_atlanta atlanta This low became a tropical depression on  .
26_atlanta atlanta After drifting to the east-southeast, a pressure of a  occurred on  .
27_atlanta atlanta The storm rapidly moved to the northeast, reaching tropical storm strength on the way.
28_atlanta atlanta After passing over ,  moved to the north, reaching a peak of  mph ( km/h) winds.
29_atlanta atlanta Conditions appeared favorable, and a hurricane watch was issued.
30_atlanta atlanta However, upper-level winds ripped the storm apart on  , and it was barely a tropical storm at its   landfall on  .
31_atlanta atlanta It weakened to a tropical depression, and advisories were stopped, later on  .
32_atlanta atlanta A tide in  ,   reached  above normal.
33_atlanta atlanta The remnant low of the system followed its track, moving southwestward into , bringing more rain to the area.
34_atlanta atlanta A total of  in ( mm) of rain fell at  .
35_atlanta atlanta lost its identity after re-entering the    on  .
36_atlanta atlanta Damage was minor, but  deaths occurred due to a fishing boat sinking over the .
37_atlanta atlanta This outbreak was also part of a larger storm system that was responsible for producing severe wear across a much wider area of  eastern   On   , weaker tornadoes had been reported in scattered locations from  to , and a thunderstorm-caused flash flood was suspected to be  cause of a train derailment in north .
38_atlanta atlanta The northern part of the same system  spawned additional severe (non-tornadic) thunderstorms, which caused  additional deaths in  and , before then dropping snow, sleet and ice across a wide area of the northeast.
39_atlanta atlanta The thunderstorms which produced the tornado outbreak were also responsible (according to the same data) for numerous reports of large hail and wind damage in  southwest  , and numerous larger cities (, GA, , , , , ,  , , , ,  , , , , ) at the periphery of the outbreak, with wind damage from thunderstorms reported as far north as .
40_atlanta atlanta Temperatures accompanying the storm were unseasonably cold for   so close to : average daily maximum temperatures, in mid-March, are around  in ,  in , and  in .
41_atlanta atlanta During the  storm, these places were all below freezing, and parts of   saw daily maximum temperatures as low as .
42_atlanta atlanta Record low temperatures for  were recorded in much of the southern    recorded a record low of  during the storm.
43_atlanta atlanta This storm complex was massive, affecting at least   states and much of eastern .
44_atlanta atlanta Bringing cold air along with heavy precipitation and hurricane force winds, it caused a blizzard over much of the area it affected, including thundersnow from  to  and widespread whiteout conditions.
45_atlanta atlanta Snow fell as far south and east as , , and areas of the   got several inches of snow, making it the most significant  storm to affect the state since .
46_atlanta atlanta Ice pellets (sleet) mixed in with the rain as temperatures in , in west-central , hovered not far above freezing after the front passed.
47_atlanta atlanta The storm severely impacted both ground and air travel.
48_atlanta atlanta Airports were closed all along the  seaboard, and flights were cancelled or, if already underway, diverted, stranding many passengers.
49_atlanta atlanta Every airport from ,   to ,  was closed for some time because of the storm.
50_atlanta atlanta Highway travel was closed or restricted all across the affected region, even in states generally well-prepared for snow events.
51_atlanta atlanta There was some sense of imminent threat in  , but the cities could not prepare for such an enormous flood.
52_atlanta atlanta The    (NWS) had a long-standing forecast for the river to crest at  feet ( m), which was the river's highest level during the  flood.
53_atlanta atlanta The cities had been able to get ir dikes to this level but  river continued to rise  it to  astonishment of   (which didn't upgrade its forecast until      river actually reached  feet).
54_atlanta atlanta The dikes in the low-lying   neighborhood of   were the  to break, doing so early on  .
55_atlanta atlanta Other dikes over   and    area failed that  and the next, flooding thousands of homes.
56_atlanta atlanta During this time,   mayor   ordered the evacuation of over  people, which up to that time, had been the largest evacuation in the   since the evacuation of residents in ,  during the  .
57_atlanta atlanta The "Dunwoody tornado" was a significant tornado that tore across the northern suburbs of metro  on   18.
58_atlanta atlanta It struck parts of the  most populous counties in : Cobb, , DeKalb, and .
59_atlanta atlanta The most severe damage was in the  area, where the storm reached a high-end F2 on the  scale, making it  of the strongest and most damaging recorded to have hit that area.
60_atlanta atlanta The funnel passed directly over 's other major edge city at Perimeter Center, and after sparing the many high-rises there, the most severe part of the tornado began through .
61_atlanta atlanta Its intensity increased to high-end F2 strength with winds up to , and its width to nearly a half mile (800m), damaging thousands of homes and downing tens of thousands of native pine and hardwood forest trees.
62_atlanta atlanta Hundreds of homes had major damage, a few  were destroyed (or nearly so) and were condemned, and had to be completely rebuilt.
63_atlanta atlanta Significant damage also occurred to the campus of   .
64_atlanta atlanta Like the   tornado that struck downtown , this storm caused an estimated $250 million in damage.
65_atlanta atlanta This was far more than the also well-remembered "governor's tornado" in  .
66_atlanta atlanta The outbreak began as the remnants of  weakened over .
67_atlanta atlanta As the storm weakened, strong thunderstorms began to develop along the edges of the system in .
68_atlanta atlanta The  tornado touched down near ,  at 3:00 A.M. (CST).
69_atlanta atlanta The tornado caused roof damage to several structures as well as knocking down several trees.
70_atlanta atlanta Over    , several "F0" and  "F1" tornadoes touched down in  and .
71_atlanta atlanta Later on  , the remnants of  were moving over  and the activity shifted into .
72_atlanta atlanta At 8:45 PM (EST), a large tornado touched down near the  Motor Speedway causing severe damage to the structures in the complex.
73_atlanta atlanta The tornado then moved into an airfield where several planes and helicopters were damaged.
74_atlanta atlanta Numerous homes were damaged or destroyed by the tornado as well.
75_atlanta atlanta The tornado was rated "F2" by the NWS.
76_atlanta atlanta The activity slowed for a short while before picking back up in early afterno hours    as the remnants of  moved through .
77_atlanta atlanta At 2:10PM (EST) an "F2" tornado touched down about  miles south of ,   where  buildings were damaged a mobile home was destroyed.
78_atlanta atlanta , other "F2" tornado touched down in  .
79_atlanta atlanta It touched down about  miles north-northeast of Harmony.
80_atlanta atlanta The tornado damaged several buildings before moving into   where an additional  buildings were damaged as well as severe crop damage to the tobacco and corn farms.
81_atlanta atlanta By the nighttime , the activity was shifting into .
82_atlanta atlanta Before the remnants of  moved out into the  ,  "F1" tornadoes touched down in .
83_atlanta atlanta The outbreak ended early on   as  began to move out over the .
84_atlanta atlanta The "  tornado outbreak" was a tornado outbreak that affected the    on  – .
85_atlanta atlanta A tornado caused widespread damage across downtown , including to    and to   Dome, where    Men's Basketball Tournament was postponed.
86_atlanta atlanta Other buildings that were damaged include the    ,   (during an   game), and the Omni Hotel, which was evacuated after many windows were blown out.
87_atlanta atlanta The Westin Peachtree Plaza suffered major window damage.
88_atlanta atlanta The image of the building with all the windows blown out became famous and, for a time, was the symbol of the tornado.
89_atlanta atlanta Centennial  , the SunTrust Tower and historic   were also damaged.
90_atlanta atlanta man was killed near downtown  and  others were injured.
91_atlanta atlanta other deaths took place on   in the northern  suburbs from the , larger round of severe weather and tornadoes.
92_atlanta atlanta In total,  tornadoes were confirmed over    period from eastern  to   coast, with most of  activity concentrated in    area,      and  Midlands of  .
93_atlanta atlanta In their 9:00 pm EDT outlook, the Storm Prediction Center issued a slight risk of severe weather across portions of the southern   from  to , with a 2% risk area for tornadoes for the  area.
94_atlanta atlanta A tornado warning was issued for  at 9:26 pm when the thunderstorm that caused the tornado was  to the northwest of the downtown area, although no watches were in effect for the area due to the low probability and unusual isolated nature.
95_atlanta atlanta The tornado drifted southward as it moved eastward, whereas most tornadic storms have a strong northward component along (or ahead of) a cold front.
96_atlanta atlanta It also was unusual because it was not associated with such a squall line at all, but was an independent supercell drifting well ahead of the main storm system.
97_atlanta atlanta The Ritz Carlton,   ,  , SunTrust Tower (where more than  people had to be relocated out of their offices),  , and    also had windows blown out ( at  alone), as did The Tabernacle (a former church with stained glass that is  a concert venue).
98_atlanta atlanta The windows of the  continued to fall for  after the tornado, forcing police to keep several city blocks and 's   station closed to pedestrians.
99_atlanta atlanta The     also sustained flooding while hosting a JROTC event and the       took footage of a staircase in the new section of the complex that looked like a fountain with water cascading down it.
100_atlanta atlanta The annual  Home Show and all or events were cancelled for   in   complex, as was      Parade scheduled for   .
101_atlanta atlanta WRAS FM at    was off the air for  , though it was not stated whether its studio or tower sustained damage, or if this were due to security or safety concerns, or power outages.
102_atlanta atlanta The historic Rialto Theatre at  also sustained roof damage, which in turn caused water damage inside.
103_atlanta atlanta Hundreds of people were rescued by boat from their homes, and at least  people died, mostly in their cars by driving where water crossed the road, which motorists were repeatedly warned against on local radio and TV.
104_atlanta atlanta The    started emergency shelters in each county affected by the floods.
105_atlanta atlanta Most  area school districts were closed  , due to floodwaters and the difficulty for school buses to get around the hundreds of closed roads.
106_atlanta atlanta On      rose to its highest level ever.
107_atlanta atlanta On  , The   Geological Survey measured the greatest flow ever recorded on  , at .
108_atlanta atlanta The flooding from the creek was met with water from the swollen  , which blocked Interstate  west of  for  .
109_atlanta atlanta Many homes and businesses in the area were completely submerged.
110_atlanta atlanta Located along the   in west , the   sewage treatment plant, the largest in the  , was swamped with  feet of water as the river rose by  additional feet.
111_atlanta atlanta Millions of gallons of untreated sewage were released into the rising waters.
112_atlanta atlanta Other plants in  and  counties experienced similar spills.
113_atlanta atlanta Also located near the , a   food plant was flooded, resulting in the closure of the plant and a subsequent national shortage of waffles.
114_atlanta atlanta The " Southeastern   floods" were a group of floods that affected several counties throughout northern ,  , ,  and .
115_atlanta atlanta Some of the worst flooding took place most around the  metropolitan area.
116_atlanta atlanta Continuous rain, spawned by moisture pulled from the   , fell faster than the local watersheds could drain the runf.
117_atlanta atlanta Rain began falling on the  area on    with the    reporting only  inches that  at the    .
118_atlanta atlanta Additional rain fell throughout  , with only a trace amount recorded for  .
119_atlanta atlanta However, a large rain event began to inundate the area on  .
120_atlanta atlanta The official  monitoring station at the  airport recorded  of rainfall from daybreak to 8pm (more than doubling the previous record for rainfall on that date), while outlying monitoring stations recorded  of rainfall in a  period.
121_atlanta atlanta Flooding began in  neighborhood that , with  remainder of  area placed under a flash flood watch for  rest of  .
122_atlanta atlanta While in conversion to the new airframe, the unit continued its mission of aerial weather reconnaissance and added a new weather-related mission type in , using the WC-130Js to drop buoys ahead of impending tropical storms.
123_atlanta atlanta In , the unit started training to support tactical airlift missions in addition to its weather mission.
124_atlanta atlanta The landfall of Hurricane Katrina on    caused devastating damage to    .
125_atlanta atlanta The equipment and personnel of the squadron were flying out of     near ,  when the hurricane struck and never missed a tasked mission.
126_atlanta atlanta Other concerns include harvests of oysters in  , which require a large enough flow of fresh water to prevent excessive saltwater intrusion from the Gulf.
127_atlanta atlanta The cost of dredging silt, much of it from uncontrolled growth across metro 's fine red clay soil, has also been called wasteful to float so little ship traffic.
128_atlanta atlanta The largest, the  LNG plant in , , has storage capacity of  gallons or   cubic feet (Mcf) of natural gas in its  tanks.
129_atlanta atlanta Located south of , the plant is supplied by  interstate pipelines for supply.
130_atlanta atlanta It is connected to the  Gas Light beltline pipeline system for distribution of gas to the  market.
131_atlanta atlanta The plant is able to deliver  Mcf/day of gas during peak send-out.
132_atlanta atlanta Gas Light, is the largest natural gas distributor in the Southeast, and is the  in  Resources.
133_atlanta atlanta It was founded in  and is also headquartered in .
134_atlanta atlanta It distributes to more than   residential, commercial, and industrial customers in  communities throughout the state of .
135_atlanta atlanta The Cherokee LNG plant, located north of  in  , , has storage capacity of  gallons or  Mcf equivalent of natural gas in a single tank.
136_atlanta atlanta The  site ws designed to ccommodte   tnk of equl cpcity if wrrnted.
137_atlanta atlanta This plant receives supply from  pipelines and can deliver an equivalent of  Mcf/day of peak send-out to 's  market.
138_atlanta atlanta Although Adam4Adam has members of all ethnic groups, the percentage of  men represented in member profiles is higher than the percentage of  people in the   population, though the degree to which this is true varies by city/region.
139_atlanta atlanta For instance, research into demographic representation in ,   ,  and     profiles evidences a trend of higher representations of men of color among younger age cohorts, with decreasing diversity in profiles as age increase.
140_atlanta atlanta This is also true of Adam4Adam membership in the  .
141_atlanta atlanta The course plans were drawn by     , architects of    , which served as  canoe slalom venue for     in .
142_atlanta atlanta The Ocoee facility is the only  whitewater venue built in a riverbed, using natural boulders to direct the water flow, and  used a similar design at  -- with a channel shaped like a natural streambed and lined with natural boulders blasted from the mountaintop.
143_atlanta atlanta The purpose was both aesthetic and practical.
144_atlanta atlanta Irregular surfaces dampen the water surges that can occur in geometrically regular artificial channels.
145_atlanta atlanta Immigrants from  typically settle in heavily urban areas upon arrival into the  Areas such as , ,  , , ,  and  have heavy concentrations of n immigrant populations.
146_atlanta atlanta Often there are clusters of nationalities within these cities.
147_atlanta atlanta The longer  immigrants live in the  , the more likely they are to live in suburban areas.
148_atlanta atlanta After the war, northern parts of  experienced an economic boom, while economies in the southern parts of the region stagnated, especially as   regained control of their respective state legislatures at the end of Reconstruction.
149_atlanta atlanta and its surrounding areas in western  grew into  of the nation's major industrial centers, especially regarding iron and steel production.
150_atlanta atlanta By , the  area and north  and northern  had experienced similar changes due to manufacturing booms in  and  at the edge of the  region.
151_atlanta atlanta Railroad construction between   and    gave  greater nation access to  vast coalfields in central , making  economy in that part of  region practically synonymous with coal mining.
152_atlanta atlanta As the nationwide demand for timber skyrocketed, lumber firms turned to the virgin forests of southern , using sawmill and logging railroad innovations to reach remote timber stands.
153_atlanta atlanta The  area   and  and the      became major petrochemical production centers.
154_atlanta atlanta As the bulk of the activity exited , the severe weather reached the  metropolitan area late during the evening.
155_atlanta atlanta tornadoes both rated F2 touched down in the northern suburbs of .
156_atlanta atlanta of the tornadoes killed  person in  .
157_atlanta atlanta Activity persisted through       where  more killer tornadoes touched down west  .
158_atlanta atlanta An F3 tornado near  in   killed  people and injured  others while damaging or destroying nearly  homes.
159_atlanta atlanta An F2 tornado further south in Long and Liberty Counties killed  including  mobile home occupants in   and  soldier at    .
160_atlanta atlanta Conditions changed on   in the  as the system moved eastward, with the cold front entering a more conducive environment.
161_atlanta atlanta The increased wind shear, combined with the high heat and humidity, allowed tornadoes to begin forming in the late morning, continuing throughout the afternoon, evening, and even into the overnight .
162_atlanta atlanta By     , a total   tornadoes had been reported, several  which caused significant damage and loss  life.
163_atlanta atlanta The most violent tornadoes hit in  , where  people were killed.
164_atlanta atlanta In addition to the tornadoes, there were many reports of hail as large as baseballs, powerful microbursts and straight-line winds, as well as local flooding.
165_atlanta atlanta Extensive damage was also reported in the northern suburbs  ,  as the storms reached that area overnight into the     .
166_atlanta atlanta Large metropolitan areas have been the destination of most resettlements, with 72% of all resettlements between    going to  locations.
167_atlanta atlanta The historical gateways for resettled refugees have been  (specifically  ,  ,  , and ), the  region (  in particular), the  (specifically  and Minneapolis-St.
168_atlanta atlanta ) and ,  .
169_atlanta atlanta In       , , ; , ; , ; and ,  were recognized as new gateways for resettled refugees.
170_atlanta atlanta Particular cities are also identified with some national groups:  metropolitan   received almost half of the resettled refugees from , 20% of  refugees went to , and nearly  of refugees from the former   were resettled in  .
171_atlanta atlanta These ethnic enclaves partially result from attempts by the agencies organizing resettlement to place newly arrived refugees with family members already in the  and in locations where government agencies and charities are known to have staff that speak the pertinent language.
172_atlanta atlanta Ethnic grouping also results as refugees and migrants seek out the comfort of familiar languages, food and customs.
173_atlanta atlanta During  ,  underwent a profound transformation demographically, physically, and culturally.
174_atlanta atlanta Suburbanization, rising prices, a booming economy, and new migrants decreased the city’s black percentage from a high of 67% in  to 54% in .
175_atlanta atlanta From  to ,  gained  white residents,   residents, and   residents, while the city’s black population decreased by .
176_atlanta atlanta Much of  city’s demographic change during   was driven by young, college-educated professionals: from   ,  three-mile radius surrounding Downwn  gained  residents aged    holding at least a  degree, an increase of 61%.
177_atlanta atlanta Between   and , stimulated by funding from  HOPE VI program,  demolished nearly all of its public housing, a total of  units and about 10% of all housing units in  city.
178_atlanta atlanta In , the $2.8 billion BeltLine project was adopted, with the stated goals of converting a disused 22-mile freight railroad loop that surrounds the central city into an art-filled multi-use trail and increasing the city’s park space by 40%.
179_atlanta atlanta Lastly, ’s cultural offerings expanded during  :  High Museum of Art doubled in size;  Alliance Theatre won a  ; and numerous art galleries were established on  once-industrial .
180_atlanta atlanta 's high elevation distinguishes it from most other southern and eastern cities, and contributes to a more temperate climate than is found in cities at similar latitudes.
181_atlanta atlanta Under the Köppen classification, it has a humid subtropical climate ("Cfa"), with very warm and humid summers and cool winters.
182_atlanta atlanta The warm, maritime air can bring spring-like highs while strong  air masses can push lows into the teens ( − °C).
183_atlanta atlanta High temperatures in  average  but occasionally approach .
184_atlanta atlanta Temperatures at or above  occur     per .
185_atlanta atlanta averages , with temperatures in the suburbs slightly cooler.
186_atlanta atlanta Overnight freezing can be expected over  , but high temperatures that do not climb above the freezing mark are rare.
187_atlanta atlanta Extremes range from  in   to  in  .
188_atlanta atlanta Typical of  souastern ,  receives abundant rain that is relatively evenly distributed throughout  , though  and   are markedly drier.
189_atlanta atlanta Average annual rainfall is .
190_atlanta atlanta Annual snowfall averages  annually.
191_atlanta atlanta The heaviest single storm, known as  “Storm of  ,” brought around  of snow in  .
192_atlanta atlanta However ice storms usually cause more nuisance than snowfall does the most severe of such storms occurring on   13 and   .
193_atlanta atlanta Tornados are rare in the city itself though twisters such as the    EF2 tornado damaged prominent structures in downtown .
194_atlanta atlanta The     reported that  had a population of .
195_atlanta atlanta The population density was  per square mile (1232/km2).
196_atlanta atlanta The racial makeup and population of  was 54.0% black or  , 38.4% white, 3.1%  and 0.2% Native .
197_atlanta atlanta Those from some other race made up 2.2% of the city’s population, while those from  or more races made up 2.0%.
198_atlanta atlanta Hispanics of any race made up 5.2% of the city’s population.
199_atlanta atlanta The median income for a household in the city was $45,171.
200_atlanta atlanta The per capita income for the city was $ 35,453.
201_atlanta atlanta 22.6% percent of the population was living below the poverty line.
202_atlanta atlanta However, compared to the rest of the country, 's cost of living is 6.00% Lower than the  average.
203_atlanta atlanta has  of the highest  populations per capita, ranking  among major  cities, behind   and slightly behind , with 12.8% of the city’s total population recognizing themselves as gay, lesbian, or bisexual.
204_atlanta atlanta has  undergone a drastic demographic increase in its white population.
205_atlanta atlanta Between  and , the proportion of whites in the city's population grew faster than that of any other  city.
206_atlanta atlanta In that , 's white population grew from 31% to 38% of the city’s population, an absolute increase of  people, more than triple the increase that occurred between   .
207_atlanta atlanta Out of the total population   and older, 83.3% spoke only  at home, while 8.8% spoke , 3.9% another  language and 2.8% an  language.
208_atlanta atlanta ’s dialect has traditionally been a variation of   .
209_atlanta atlanta The   long formed a border between the   and  Appalachian dialects.
210_atlanta atlanta However, by , ‘‘’’ magazine concluded that  had become significantly "de-ized," with a  accent considered a handicap in some circumstances.
211_atlanta atlanta In general,  accents are less prevalent among residents of the city and inner suburbs and among younger people, while they are more common in the outer suburbs and among older people; this pattern coexists alongside  variations of    .
212_atlanta atlanta Largely due to a state-wide tax incentive enacted in , the     , which awards qualified productions a transferable income tax credit of 20% of all in-state costs for film and television investments of $500,000 or more,  has become a center for film and television production.
213_atlanta atlanta Film and television production facilities in  include  ,   ,   , and the   soundstages.
214_atlanta atlanta Film and television production injected $1 billion into ’s economy in , with  garnering most of the projects.
215_atlanta atlanta has gained recognition as a center of production of horror and zombie-related productions, with ‘‘’’ magazine dubbing the city the "Zombie Capital of the World".
216_atlanta atlanta Compared to its peer cities, ’s economy has been disproportionately affected by the  financial crisis and the subsequent recession.
217_atlanta atlanta The city’s economic problems are displayed in its elevated unemployment rate, declining real income levels, and depressed housing market.
218_atlanta atlanta From ,  saw a 0.9% contraction in employment and a meager 0.4% rise in income.
219_atlanta atlanta As of , the unemployment rate in  was over 9%, higher the national average of 8.2%.
220_atlanta atlanta These dismal statistics have garnered  recognition as  of  world’s worst economic performers, with  city’s economy earning a ranking of  among  global cities, down from a ranking of  during  , when  city realized 1.6% income growth and 2.6% employment growth.
221_atlanta atlanta However, even when   period is excluded,   period is still  of  worst on record for :  city never recovered  jobs it lost during    recession, and per capita income declined nearly 5% from   ,  largest decline among major  cities.
222_atlanta atlanta Thus, ’s  economic crisis was only worsened, and not caused, by the Recession.
223_atlanta atlanta Adding to the city’s employment and income woes is the spectacular collapse of its housing market.
224_atlanta atlanta home prices fell by 2.1% in  , reaching levels not seen since , a decline that measured among the worst in the country.
225_atlanta atlanta Compred with  yer erlier, the verge home price in Atlnt fell 17.3% in Februry , the lrgest nnul drop in the history of the index for ny city.
226_atlanta atlanta home values average $85,000 as of  , second-worst among major metropolitan areas, coming in just behind .
227_atlanta atlanta This unprecedented collapse in home prices has led some economists to deem  the worst housing market in the country.
228_atlanta atlanta The city’s lush tree canopy, which filters out pollutants and cools sidewalks and buildings, has increasingly been under assault from man and nature due to heavy rains, drought, aged forests, new pests, and urban construction.
229_atlanta atlanta A  study found that ’s heavy tree cover declined from 48% in  to 38% in .
230_atlanta atlanta However, the problem is being addressed by community organizations and city government:  , a non-profit organization founded in , has planted and distributed over  shade trees in the city, while ’s government has awarded $130,000 in grants to neighborhood groups to plant trees.
231_atlanta atlanta " Gas Light Company" ("C"), commonly still known as " Gas Light" (""), is the largest natural gas wholesaler in the  , and is the "" in parent company  .
232_atlanta atlanta It was founded in  and is headquartered in , as is AGL Resources.
233_atlanta atlanta It provides distribution to more than   residential, commercial, and industrial customers in  communities throughout the state of .
234_atlanta atlanta The   , a division of the   , facilitates the growth and development of sports in metro  by serving as an event recruiter.
235_atlanta atlanta The organization plays an important role in improving the quality of life for residents in the region, works to drive economic growth and visibility, and acts as an advocate for the area teams and annual sporting events.
236_atlanta atlanta primarily uses natural gas for central heating and water heaters, with  major exception of heat pumps in apartments built during and since  .
237_atlanta atlanta This is because winters are mild, and large apartment buildings usually require little energy to heat.
238_atlanta atlanta Backup heat (also used during defrosting) is usually supplied by electric resistance heating, though some homes have hybrid heating units which use gas backup when it is cold.
239_atlanta atlanta homes may also use all-electric instead of gas, if gas mains have not been extended to an area.
240_atlanta atlanta Gs Light is the nturl gs utility for the region, nd hs been so for over   nd  hlf, since it instlled gs lmps in  in .
241_atlanta atlanta It operated as a regulated monopoly until  , the after the state legislature voted in   to deregulate natural gas marketing, and make customers choose among n  different marketers still selling the same AGL-wholesaled gas.
242_atlanta atlanta Most of the gas comes via pipeline from .
243_atlanta atlanta The low-density residential subdivision development that dominates the metro  suburbs has historically not been required to replace lost tree inventory.
244_atlanta atlanta Because of larger lot sizes, and natural-looking architecture such as  contemporary, older neighborhoods typically have many mature forest trees, except in cases where they have been destroyed by homeowners.
245_atlanta atlanta Increasing density allowed by zoning since   has meant fewer and fewer trees left, and by   it became common for developers to completely clear-cut dozens of acres of forest and bulldoze all hills flat to build generic tract housing, often with tightly packed homes nearly touching each or and up against  street.
246_atlanta atlanta However, over    some area cities and counties have revised ir tree ordinances to require tree recompense to be equal to or greater than  pre-development tree density, trying to ensure a  tree canopy.
247_atlanta atlanta Rather than leaving trees on each home lot as before, this typically involves a set-aside of green space in each development, with most other areas still clear-cut.
248_atlanta atlanta Even when some trees are replaced, it is with a single type of trees planted the same distance from each other, rather than different trees at random placement and age as in the native forest.
249_atlanta atlanta White  made up 55.4% of metro 's population, a relative decrease from 63.0%   , but still an absolute increase of over  people.
250_atlanta atlanta whites dropped from 59.5% to 50.7% of the metro's population, increasing by about  people.
251_atlanta atlanta are the fastest growing ethnic group.
252_atlanta atlanta At 10.4% of the metro's population in , versus only 6.5% in , the metro's  population increased an astounding 103.6%, or  people, in  .
253_atlanta atlanta groups include  ,    and  .
254_atlanta atlanta All of those groups' populations increased by over 90% in the  period.
255_atlanta atlanta Of the metro's 279,000-person increase in the  population from   ,  came in  ,  in ,  in Fuln (all but  outside the city of ),  in Hall, and  in  .
256_atlanta atlanta is increasingly international, with its  foreign-born residents in , a 69% increase versus .
257_atlanta atlanta This was the  largest rate of growth among the nation's top  metros, after ,  and  .
258_atlanta atlanta The foreign-born proportion of the population went up from 10.3%  13.6%, and  moved up from    in ranking of  metro areas with the largest immigrant population by sheer numbers.
259_atlanta atlanta Still, its 13.6% proportion of immigrants is only the  highest of the nation's top  metros.
260_atlanta atlanta In  Greater  had the largest  population in the   .
261_atlanta atlanta The Consulate General of  in  estimated that, during that ,  to  ese lived in  .
262_atlanta atlanta Of the metropolitan areas in the   , as of  Greater  had the most extensive education network for  nationals.
263_atlanta atlanta The  metro area has a humid subtropical climate with  seasons, although  is the longest.
264_atlanta atlanta daily lows average from  north to south, and highs range from , but often reach well above or below this average.
265_atlanta atlanta There is an average annual snowfall of about  falling mostly from  through  though there was snow north of the city on   .
266_atlanta atlanta Snow flurries are actually common during the   when there is an especially deep trough in the jet stream.
267_atlanta atlanta These events usually do not amount to more than a slight dusting and therefore go unrecognized in most weather summaries.
268_atlanta atlanta Summers, by contrast, are long and consistently hot and humid, with  mornings averaging  and afternoons averaging , slight breezes, and typically a –40% chance of afternoon thunderstorms.
269_atlanta atlanta During the  afternoon thunderstorms, temperatures may suddenly drop to  degrees with locally heavy rainfall.
270_atlanta atlanta Average annual rain is about , with   and   (as well as ) being the wettest and  (especially ) being the driest.
271_atlanta atlanta From  to , the highest recorded temperatures at  were  on   in the extraordinarily hot  , followed by  that  and in  , the hottest  ever for the area.
272_atlanta atlanta This was broken on      , when  temperature reached , during a massive heat wave that hit most   country, with anor     tying   record.
273_atlanta atlanta The lowest recorded temperatures were  and  on   and  of  and  on    during severe cold snaps that went so far south they devastated the entire citrus industry in central .
274_atlanta atlanta Hurricane Opal brought sustained tropical storm conditions to the area  night in early  , uprooting hundreds of trees and causing widespread power outages, after soaking the area with rain for   prior.
275_atlanta atlanta Since  some metro counties have been hit more than  times by tornadoes, with  () and  () being  of the highest in the state.
276_atlanta atlanta The  tornado in    was the worst tornado to have struck the area.
277_atlanta atlanta A tornado struck downtown  in  , causing a half-billion dollars in damage,  of the most expensive storms ever recorded anywhere.
278_atlanta atlanta The area experiences a  storm with significant snowfall about  each year, however this can be extremely irregular.
279_atlanta atlanta A blizzard (see:  Storm of  ) caught much of  Souast off-guard in , dumping  at   airport on  , and much more than that in  suburbs to  north and west, as well as in  mountains.
280_atlanta atlanta The only other recorded  storm of comparable severity was the Great Blizzard of .
281_atlanta atlanta The heaviest snow, however, was in  , when  buried the city during its coldest  on record.
282_atlanta atlanta The second-heaviest was in , when a very late storm dumped  on  .
283_atlanta atlanta Ice storms have also occurred in the area.
284_atlanta atlanta The well-remembered  ice storm was brutal as was the storm in .
285_atlanta atlanta The Southeastern  drought of – began with dry weather in , and left area lakes very low.
286_atlanta atlanta The drought finlly begn to bte significntly fter the   floods, when some res got up to  of rin in  , with hlf of tht flling in just   ner the end of the period.
287_atlanta atlanta The  calculated it to be a  flood.
288_atlanta atlanta Disputes over water are becoming increasingly common, with both  and  filing lawsuits and threatening injunctions to prevent  from taking too much water, mostly for metro .
289_atlanta atlanta also threatened when a pipeline east to the   was mentioned even informally.
290_atlanta atlanta The state has  been ordered by a judge to reduce withdrawals from the  south of  to  levels within   (), something that would create an immediate emergency water shortage if it were actually enforced.
291_atlanta atlanta This was done because it was ruled the   never authorized the use of the lake as a water supply.
292_atlanta atlanta The city's lush tree canopy, which filters out pollutants and cools sidewalks and buildings, has increasingly been under assault from man and nature due to heavy rains, drought, aged forests, new pests, and urban construction.
293_atlanta atlanta A  study found that 's heavy tree cover declined from 48% in  to 38% in .
294_atlanta atlanta This loss of tree canopy resulted in a 33% increase in stormwater runoff and a loss of 11 million pounds of pollutants removed annually, a value of approximately $28 million per .
295_atlanta atlanta Due to a historic drought in the  ,  lost trees at an unprecedented rate.
296_atlanta atlanta For example,   lost about a  large, historic trees in , compared to  or  during normal .
297_atlanta atlanta Although many of 's trees are between –   and thus reaching the end of their normal lifespan, the drought accelerated their demise by shrinking the trees' roots.
298_atlanta atlanta However, the problem is being addressed by community organizations and city government.
299_atlanta atlanta Trees , a non-profit organization founded in , has planted and distributed over  shade trees.
300_atlanta atlanta 's city government awarded $130,000 in grants to neighborhood groups to plant trees.
301_atlanta atlanta has a reputation as the "city in a forest" due to its abundance of trees, unique among major cities.
302_atlanta atlanta The city's main street is named after a tree, and beyond the , Midtown, and  business districts, the skyline gives way to a dense canopy of woods that spreads into the suburbs.
303_atlanta atlanta The nickname is factually accurate, as the city's tree coverage percentage is at 36%, the highest out of all major  cities, and above the national average of 27%.
304_atlanta atlanta 's tree coverage does not go unnoticed—it was the main reason cited by "National Geographic" in naming  a "Place of a Lifetime":"For a sprawling city with the nation’s ninth-largest metro area,  is surprisingly lush with trees—magnolias, dogwoods,  pines, and magnificent oaks."
305_atlanta atlanta The low-density residential subdivision development that dominates the  area has historically not been required to replace lost tree inventory.
306_atlanta atlanta Because of larger lot sizes and natural-looking architecture, such as  contemporary, older neighborhoods typically have many mature forest trees, except in cases where they have been destroyed by homeowners.
307_atlanta atlanta Increasing density allowed by zoning since   has meant fewer and fewer trees left, and by   it became common for developers to completely clearcut dozens of acres of forest and bulldoze all hills flat to build generic tract housing, often with tightly packed homes nearly touching each or and up against  street.
308_atlanta atlanta However, over    some area cities and counties have revised ir tree ordinances to require tree recompense to be equal to or greater than  pre-development tree density, trying to ensure a  tree canopy.
309_atlanta atlanta Rather than leaving trees on each home lot as before, this typically involves a set-aside of green space in each development, with most other areas still clear-cut.
310_atlanta atlanta Even when some trees are replaced, it is with a single type of trees planted the same distance from each other, rather than different trees at random placement and age as in the native forest.
311_atlanta atlanta At a rate of  acres ( hectares) per , the deforestation brought by land development has had a significant impact on area watersheds, as they  flood far more rapidly and to a much greater extent than prior to development.
312_atlanta atlanta The City of  also owns  of land located southwest of , , which was purchased in  from , and was the previous site of the  Nuclear Aircraft Laboratory (GNAL).
313_atlanta atlanta The property is  referred to as the      , and managed by the  ry  with a trail system open to the public.
314_atlanta atlanta The tract is located approximately  miles from the end of limited access on   north of Cumming, .
315_atlanta atlanta An area of   occupied by  was restricted following  testing which found residual nuclear radiation from the experiments performed there.
316_atlanta atlanta Subsequent studies in  and  found radiation levels to be at or slightly above normal background levels.
317_atlanta atlanta The property also encompasses  , which various groups are lobbying to be designated as a scenic river.
318_atlanta atlanta The forest has also been proposed for use as a major reservoir for the city of  water system.
319_atlanta atlanta On     was hit by an EF4 tornado.
320_atlanta atlanta The tornado completely destroyed a mansion and caused severe damage to several other homes.
321_atlanta atlanta This was the  EF4 tornado to strike  in .
322_atlanta atlanta The  tornado was   EF4 tornado of   in   ,  most since .
323_atlanta atlanta In  , 's population has decreased due to emigration.
324_atlanta atlanta Migrants from  can be found throughout the  , especially in , , and the    region of .
325_atlanta atlanta Journalist   has written about such migrants in his book "Antonio's Gun and 's Dream: True Tales of Mexican Migration".
326_atlanta atlanta Snowfall is not nearly as common as in , due largely to 's elevation, with downtown  being about  feet lower than downtown .
327_atlanta atlanta Still, snow flurries are typically seen annually.
328_atlanta atlanta Freezing rain is also a threat in wintertime.
329_atlanta atlanta began visiting    in    to salvage wrecked ships, fish, catch turtles and log tropical hardwood trees.
330_atlanta atlanta A  settlement in the Keys was reported in , but the presence of s in the keys was temporary.
331_atlanta atlanta Early in    some  to   ships were working in  keys every year.
332_atlanta atlanta After ,  wreckers began moving to   in large numbers.
333_atlanta atlanta , the largest   populations are in ,  , , and  .
334_atlanta atlanta With the reverse movement of the   , the  has been the gaining region for black migrants coming from all  other census regions, especially from .
335_atlanta atlanta The chief gaining states have been ,  , , ,  and .
336_atlanta atlanta In the same period, ,  and  attracted the most black college graduates.
337_atlanta atlanta and  center cities have lost black population as the middle class has moved to the suburbs.
338_atlanta atlanta In a change from previous settlement patterns, new regional migrants settle directly in the suburbs, the areas of largest residential growth and often the location of jobs as well.
339_atlanta atlanta In addition to , the top metropolitan areas attracting   include ,  and , ; and ,  .
340_atlanta atlanta of residential change accelerated in the   after passage of civil rights legislation ended segregation, and   could exercise more choices in housing and jobs.
341_atlanta atlanta Since  , re began a period of major restructuring of industries and loss of hundreds of thousands of industrial jobs in norast and  cities.
342_atlanta atlanta Since    , se events led to reduced density in formerly black neighborhoods in cities such as , , and , which have also had absolute population decreases, losing white population as well.
343_atlanta atlanta Since the  census, the number and proportion of black population has decreased in several major cities, including  ,  , , ,  , and , .
344_atlanta atlanta The official   Census category of Hispanic or Latino is limited explicitly to people of " culture or origin", and therefore does not include  .
345_atlanta atlanta The  recorded  to emigrate to    came in  .
346_atlanta atlanta Before then,  were included in a group formed by all   groups and were not counted separately.
347_atlanta atlanta Of the  people of   that arrived to   between   , at least, some of them were , already in  the    report counted   ns of  ancestry.
348_atlanta atlanta From  until   between     immigrants arrived in    each year.
349_atlanta atlanta Since   poverty in  quickly increased, as a result between      ians emigrated to   , as well as ,  .
350_atlanta atlanta It was not until the 's when  emigration reached significant levels.
351_atlanta atlanta Thus, between   , an estimated   arrived in  .
352_atlanta atlanta A significant number of them -   - arrived in .
353_atlanta atlanta The     recorded  that there are about   living in the  .
354_atlanta atlanta However, other sources indicate that there are near   living in the   area alone in addition to sizable  communities in , , , ,  , , and .
355_atlanta atlanta The  census counted  people,  households, and  families residing in the   CDP.
356_atlanta atlanta The population density was  people per square mile (/km²).
357_atlanta atlanta There were  housing units at an average density of /sq
358_atlanta atlanta mi (/km²).
359_atlanta atlanta The racial makeup of the CDP was 61.52% White, 17.56%  , 0.41% Native , 4.88% , 0.05% Pacific Islander, 12.64% from other races, and 2.94% from  or more races.
360_atlanta atlanta Hispanic or Latino of any race were 27.41% of the population.
361_atlanta atlanta By    began to grow due to  rail road.
362_atlanta atlanta According to    several stores were built including a bank, a drugstore, cotton gins, grist mills, blacksmith shops, and several other stores were built.
363_atlanta atlanta Although businesses were on the rise in the small town, the main source of economy for the town was farming.
364_atlanta atlanta Cotton was the number  crop for a long time until  when the boll weevil appeared quickly destroying crops and placing the town in to an economic depression which also caused the town to lose its charter.
365_atlanta atlanta By the time the country hit the Great Depression,  had been suffering alone for  long .
366_atlanta atlanta began to come out of the depression in  after electricity was installed in the town.
367_atlanta atlanta Around this time  received its town charter again.
368_atlanta atlanta Another factor in the growth of the town was due to the rise in airline industry.
369_atlanta atlanta Airline employees from  began to buy large tracks of farmland.
370_atlanta atlanta Farming also changed as it moved away from the cotton industry changing to the cattle industry.
371_atlanta atlanta is still considered to be rural but, agriculture is no longer the main source of economy.
372_atlanta atlanta Much of  is being divided into small  to  lots ready for the construction of a generally nice homes.
373_atlanta atlanta is  a residential area that many people are moving to since it is still considered to be rural.
374_atlanta atlanta People are trying to get out of the fast pace city and moving to close rural areas such as .
375_atlanta atlanta Besides construction, much of the economy of the citizens of  come from the city in which the people drive to work in metro areas such as  or even in .
376_atlanta atlanta has some stores in town that also contribute to the economy such as a women’s hair salon and tanning shop, a barber shop, deer processor, storage center, and several convenient stores.
377_atlanta atlanta is a linear community made up of multi-ethnic suburban neighborhoods and shopping centers.
378_atlanta atlanta Similar to other sun belt cities, immigrants who relocated to  in the     went straight to the suburbs, where residential  commercial real estate was affordable  where many second-generation immigrant communities were already established.
379_atlanta atlanta Along Buford Highway, there are few wholly distinct ethnic areas.
380_atlanta atlanta The more than  immigrant-owned businesses are owned by and patronized by a wide variety of ethnic groups, notably , ,  and , and also  ,   and .
381_atlanta atlanta The      calls the area the "International Corridor."
382_atlanta atlanta Buford Highway originated as a non-descript state roadway connecting  and points northeast, including the then-railroad towns of  and , as well as points farther north.
383_atlanta atlanta The towns of ,  and  had long been home to a blue collar, largely white, lower middle-class population.
384_atlanta atlanta The highway was characterized by strip mall development, and apartment complexes sprouted up in   and .
385_atlanta atlanta In  the  ethnic restaurant opened, the  Sandwich Shop.
386_atlanta atlanta In  , immigrants settled in  area due to affordable housing, available public transportation, and proximity to construction jobs in growing  .
387_atlanta atlanta The area attracted many  workers during the construction boom that preceded the   .
388_atlanta atlanta business owners were attracted to the stretch of highway by cheap leases and reliable traffic flow.
389_atlanta atlanta "Bull Sluice Lake" is a small reservoir located along the   in northern , in the northern suburbs of metro .
390_atlanta atlanta It is , and is impounded by   .
391_atlanta atlanta Besides the hydroelectric power produced by the dam, the lake's primary use is recreation, including fishing and rowing.
392_atlanta atlanta It also  helps to buffer releases by  , from the much larger (by  times)  ,  upstream.
393_atlanta atlanta is created by   , a small hydroelectric dam located along the   at the northern end of  , , in north metro , located in   .
394_atlanta atlanta Originally constructed in  by   to provide electricity for 's streetcars, it  provides enough power for about  homes.
395_atlanta atlanta It was named for then  deceased   president   's mother whose maiden name was .
396_atlanta atlanta At the time it was by far the largest hydroelectric plant in the state.
397_atlanta atlanta In  it was rebuilt as a  cycle plant with  kilowatts (up from the original kW).
398_atlanta atlanta In  it was raised to regulate  flow from   in order to give  water during   it was needed most.
399_atlanta atlanta It is  feet or  meters long, and  feet or  meters tall.
400_atlanta atlanta The dam's  license from the     () was issued in  , and expires in  .
401_atlanta atlanta has begun the required impact studies for re-licensing of the dam, which will be for  or  .
402_atlanta atlanta During a weather incident during a   game vs the  , portable concession stands were knocked over, the infield rain tarp was damaged, and plastic sheets used to protect the press box were dislodged.
403_atlanta atlanta As a result of the storm at least  spectators were injured, of whom  were taken to the hospital.
404_atlanta atlanta After the storm happened, the stadium designated shelter areas for such disasters which are located throughout the ballpark.
405_atlanta atlanta Despite greatly relaxed lending standards and low interest rates, many regions of the country saw very little growth during the "bubble period".
406_atlanta atlanta Out of  largest metropolitan areas tracked by the /Case-Shiller house price index,  (, , , , , and ) saw less than 10% price growth in inflation-adjusted terms in 01–06.
407_atlanta atlanta During the same period,  metropolitan areas (, ,  ,  ,  , , and  ) appreciated by more than 80%.
408_atlanta atlanta Somewhat paradoxically, as the housing bubble deflates some metropolitan areas (such as  and ) have been experiencing high foreclosure rates, even though they did not see much house appreciation in the  place and therefore did not appear to be contributing to the national bubble.
409_atlanta atlanta This was also true of some cities in  Rust Belt such as  and , where weak local economies had produced little house price appreciation early in   but still saw declining values and increased foreclosures in .
410_atlanta atlanta As of   , ,  and  were the states with the highest foreclosure rates.
411_atlanta atlanta As  states have needs red to  river, re has been increasing controversy since     red to competing development among  regions and  implications for  river.
412_atlanta atlanta The enormous growth of metropolitan  has increased its water withdrawals from the river.
413_atlanta atlanta This has effects downstream.
414_atlanta atlanta For example, the oysters in the  , , depend on the brackish water mixture of river and ocean water, and the alternating freshwater and saltwater flows that the river and the tides provide.
415_atlanta atlanta The amount of flow in the  has also been decreased by interbasin water transfers, where water is withdrawn from the , but discharged as treated sewage water into another river, such as the  , which flows to the  .
416_atlanta atlanta The  most recent major flood along the river occurred during the   floods, with  of water recorded at  at the northwestern  city limit.
417_atlanta atlanta The flood was over  higher than the previous flood recorded in  , as a result of Hurricane Fred.
418_atlanta atlanta Numerous tributaries also swelled far over and beyond their banks.
419_atlanta atlanta These were the highest water levels seen since , and the second-highest ever since the large   was built upstream.
420_atlanta atlanta The    in   estimated that this was a  flood event.
421_atlanta atlanta During  historic    floods,    (part of   Public s) was ruined by   in   after students and faculty evacuated.
422_atlanta atlanta Although outside the  flood plain, massive rainfall and upstream land development caused the stream to swell to more than  times its normal height, also flooding other locations in .
423_atlanta atlanta The new    opened at a different location in  .
424_atlanta atlanta and southeast areas of the state experience snow much less frequently than other parts of .
425_atlanta atlanta The  , sometimes referred to as the   province, is somewhat cooler in  than the coastal areas.
426_atlanta atlanta The  res of the Piedmont my receive snow every other yer, while res close to the foothills get snow severl times  yer.
427_atlanta atlanta The mountains of  have the coolest climate and most frequent snowfall in the state, although snowfall is less than any other part of the  .
428_atlanta atlanta The main  weather hazard in northern  is "freezing rain - or rain which freezes upon contact with the ground - which is  or more of snow falling in a   period, or  or more in a   period."
429_atlanta atlanta The exception to this is the mountain areas of , , , and other surrounding counties heavy snow is " or more of snow in a   period or  or more of snow in a   period".
430_atlanta atlanta Watches for heavy snow are issued when a 50 percent or greater chance of  or more of snow falling in a   period, or  or more in a   period is expected.
431_atlanta atlanta Again, there are exceptionsthan a trace of frozen precipitation has been recorded officially for .
432_atlanta atlanta The criteria for the mountain counties is " inches or more of snow in a   period or  or more of snow in a   period".
433_atlanta atlanta Summers are hot and humid with temperatures in the afternoons that reach, on average, to near .
434_atlanta atlanta Overnight lows fall to near   and there is usually an   difference in temperature between the mountains and .
435_atlanta atlanta While humidity in  , especially in the mountains, can be high it is not as high as it is in  .
436_atlanta atlanta thunderstorms add to the humidity in the area by providing  to  of rain during the  .
437_atlanta atlanta The annual average temperature in  is  downtown and  at the Airport, in , amongst the warmest in .
438_atlanta atlanta It is located in a  plant hardiness zone of  , similar to other coastal or near-costal cities such as , ,  and , as well as places such as ,  and ,  , far to the south.
439_atlanta atlanta The mild climate allows plants such as the Windmill Palm to sustain.
440_atlanta atlanta Economic problems and violence have led to an emigration of  to the  , particularly   (especially in the suburbs of ,  such as , , and , and the  suburb of  ),  ,   ( ),   in   , , the   metro area, eastern  , and an expanding community in ,  and , mainly in the  ,  and  areas.
441_atlanta atlanta After of   I, many  immigrated to   in order to complete their education there, studying in the universities of this country.
442_atlanta atlanta Most of them settled in  .
443_atlanta atlanta After the civil war in  and increased poverty in  many ns also emigrated to   during the 's.
444_atlanta atlanta In the 's, the economic crisis prompted the emigration of many  to the  , obtaining  citizenship  Between 19 and  .
445_atlanta atlanta Since the 's, many   fled their urban cities to migrate to areas smaller of states like  or  , due to the high cost of living in big cities and an increase in crime in them.
446_atlanta atlanta The increase of the guerrillas in  between    also boosted the n emigration during this period.
447_atlanta atlanta As we discussed earlier, about   immigrated at that time the  , concentrating mostly in the state of .
448_atlanta atlanta The   states in the  census had  towns and cities with  people; of these  with  people were at  point occupied by Union forces.
449_atlanta atlanta were destroyed or severely damaged by war action, including  (with an  population of ), , ,   (with prewar populations of , ,  , respectively); the  contained  people in the  census, or 14% of the urban South.
450_atlanta atlanta Historians have not estimated what their actual population was when Union forces arrived.
451_atlanta atlanta The number of people (as of ) who lived in the destroyed towns represented just over 1% of the Confederacy's  population.
452_atlanta atlanta In addition,  court houses were burned (out of ).
453_atlanta atlanta The South's agriculture was not highly mechanized.
454_atlanta atlanta The value of farm implements and machinery in the  Census was $81 million; by , there was 40% less, worth just $48 million.
455_atlanta atlanta Many old tools had broken through heavy use; new tools were rarely available; even repairs were difficult.
456_atlanta atlanta operates as a producer of multiple energy sources, primarily for electric power generation.
457_atlanta atlanta The company's largest assets consist of its coal and natural gas divisions, but Consol also maintains support services including "Baltimore Marine Terminal", "River Division", "Research  & Development", "Land Division", and "Fairmont Supply Company".
458_atlanta atlanta Consol's Coal Division operates   coal mining complexes in  states in the  , including ,  ,  and .
459_atlanta atlanta As of , the company maintained an estimated   tons of proven and probable coal reserves and produced nearly   tons of coal in .
460_atlanta atlanta The coal produced from these mining operations are sold from offices in , , , , and ,
461_atlanta atlanta Consol’s coal division received      's Office  Surface Mining National Award for Excellence in Surface Mining for  company's innovative reclamation practices in , ,  .
462_atlanta atlanta CORRIM was organized to update and expand a  report by the     that evaluated the impacts  producing and using renewable materials.
463_atlanta atlanta A research plan for CORRIM was completed in .
464_atlanta atlanta Guidelines were developed for a Phase  Research plan in  to compile life-cycle inventory (LCI) data for wood-based structural products (lumber, plywood, OSB, LVL, glulam and trusses) from the   and Southeast producing regions.
465_atlanta atlanta Based on these data,  information was compiled to compare the impacts of representative residential houses framed with wood products, steel or concrete, in both a cold () and warm () climate.
466_atlanta atlanta A final report was made available for professional review in  and was published after formal reviews in .
467_atlanta atlanta A Phase  Research Plan was initiated in 004 to extend the coverage to  Northeast/Northcentral supply regions and to include hardwoods; to the  Inland West supply region to include the interaction with fire management; to a broader range of structures and geographic locations; and to include , particleboard and resins as large volume non-structural uses of wood fiber.
468_atlanta atlanta During  , like with many large cities within   , 's population began to decline.
469_atlanta atlanta By , the population was , down almost 20% from its population in , which was .
470_atlanta atlanta In addition,  city center and surrounding areas began to go through an urban decay, and crime spiked significantly throughout  .
471_atlanta atlanta Along with many or major cities in   ,  was hard hit by  crack epidemic of most of   to early .
472_atlanta atlanta In ,  was ranked the most dangerous city in the country by the   .
473_atlanta atlanta In , drug-related crime in metro  increased slightly, in part due to  becoming an important distribution center for cocaine, and other related drugs imported from .
474_atlanta atlanta These increases were mostly seen in , , DeKalb, , and  counties.
475_atlanta atlanta Many law enforcement agencies in the area have joined forces together with the    in an effort to decrease the overall crime in metro .
476_atlanta atlanta In addition, due to large amounts of gentrification and other revitalization projects in the city core, crime continued to fall, even amidst the hard economic times of the late-2000s.
477_atlanta atlanta "Crime in , ", while above  national median and a major problem for  city since    , has been declining since   .
478_atlanta atlanta Between  and  the crime rate in  dropped by 40 percent, according to the .
479_atlanta atlanta Homicide fell 57 percent.
480_atlanta atlanta Rape was down 72 percent.
481_atlanta atlanta Violent crime overall was down 55 percent.
482_atlanta atlanta ’s public safety improvement has occurred at more than twice the rate of the rest of the country.
483_atlanta atlanta Crime is down across the country, but ’s improvement has far surpassed the national trend.
484_atlanta atlanta This relative improvement explains why —after ranking in  top  highest crime cities for most of    — ranks .
485_atlanta atlanta has lower crime than   ,  and , .
486_atlanta atlanta The city is served by the   , which has an estimated  officers working in the force.
487_atlanta atlanta is divided into  police zones.
488_atlanta atlanta In , the         estimated   people, age   over, had used methamphetamine—  which were estimated to be  users—with a growth rate  approximately  new users per .
489_atlanta atlanta In , a   clinic estimated that  out of  gay or bisexual HIV-positive men admitted to using methamphetamine.
490_atlanta atlanta Methamphetamine may lower inhibitions, increasing the likelihood of engaging in unprotected sex and sharing needles.
491_atlanta atlanta In large metropolitan areas, such as , ,  and , , many  groups are designated as "gay/lesbian" reflecting the use of methamphetamine in urban gay communities.
492_atlanta atlanta , in contrast to other  cities, contains a large, and rapidly growing,   population.
493_atlanta atlanta The number of  grew from  members in  to  members in , an increase of 207 percent.
494_atlanta atlanta The population is expected to top   by 20.
495_atlanta atlanta The increase is fueled by  moving to  from other parts of the  and the world, and from newcomers to the church.
496_atlanta atlanta About 16 percent of all metropolitan  residents are , comparable to many of  metropolitan areas.
497_atlanta atlanta , the city is experiencing new growth.
498_atlanta atlanta The completion of   has helped turn Cumming into a commuter town for .
499_atlanta atlanta The city holds the Cumming Country Fair & Festival every .
500_atlanta atlanta The   Preserve also provides views of the city from the top of  .
501_atlanta atlanta In ,  , along the  , started operating.
502_atlanta atlanta The reservoir that it created is called  .
503_atlanta atlanta The lake, being a popular spot for boaters, has generated income from tourists for  as well as provide a source of drinking water.
504_atlanta atlanta However, because of rapid growth of the  area, drought, and mishandling of a stream gauge,   has seen record-low water levels.
505_atlanta atlanta Moreover, the lake is involved in a longstanding lawsuit between , , and .
506_atlanta atlanta Because of a recent ruling, the city may not be able to withdraw its water.
507_atlanta atlanta However, the city is looking into different sources of water such as wells and various creeks.
508_atlanta atlanta "Cycling in " has grown in popularity in  , from 0.33% of commutes in  to 1.1% in , aided by improving cycling infrastructure and community support.
509_atlanta atlanta Although  has historically been a city defined by the automobile, its increasingly-compact urban form and mild climate are encouraging residents to cycle to work, shopping, and recreational destinations.
510_atlanta atlanta Though 's famed hilly topography can make cycling difficult, many parts of the city are relatively flat, including some of the more densely populated areas.
511_atlanta atlanta However, heavy automobile traffic, the lack of bike lanes on many streets, and difficulty in crossing major streets deter most residents from cycling frequently in .
512_atlanta atlanta It was intended and retained by the city as a potential site for 's  airport, however in    it was made known that part may be used for the "Shoal Creek Reservoir", a reservoir that would send water mainly to the city of  system, at its water works in  .
513_atlanta atlanta However, this  pipeline would result in an interbasin transfer from the   to the  , which is  prohibited by the metro  water district, and would leave less water in  .
514_atlanta atlanta Additionally,  has sued to stop nearly everything  has tried to do with the upstream water supply, including the    reservoir.
515_atlanta atlanta Without these lawsuits, it has been estimated that it could be permitted and built by .
516_atlanta atlanta The lake would be , leaving the remainder as forest.
517_atlanta atlanta Informal  labor is not new to the  , and  laborers are not always migrant workers in many cases.
518_atlanta atlanta In his study of  laborers in ,   interviews white and black  laborers in addition to hispanic workers.
519_atlanta atlanta Many other metropolitan areas still have non-immigrant  laborers, and many other large and small cities have immigrant  laborers from a variety of countries, including , , , , Central and  , and countries in .
520_atlanta atlanta Non-immigrant informal  labor, seen in many cities, does not generate the controversy or calls to police and local government seen when immigrant  laborers gather to wait for work.
521_atlanta atlanta De-icing on the ground is usually done by spraying aircraft with a de-icing fluid based on propylene glycol, similar to ethylene glycol antifreeze used in some automobile engine coolants.
522_atlanta atlanta Ethylene Glycol (EG) is still in use for aircraft de-icing in some parts of the world because it has a lower operational use temperature (LOUT) than PG, but Propylene Glycol (PG) is more common because it is classified as non-toxic, unlike Ethylene Glycol.
523_atlanta atlanta Nevertheless, it still must be used with a containment system to capture the used liquid, so that it cannot seep into the ground and water courses.
524_atlanta atlanta Even though classified as non-toxic, it has negative effects in nature, since it uses oxygen during breakdown, causing aquatic life to suffocate.
525_atlanta atlanta In  case, a significant snow in  in    caused an overflow of such a system, briefly contaminating the   downstream of the  airport.
526_atlanta atlanta Many airports recycle used de-icing fluid, separating water and solid contaminants, enabling reuse of the fluid in other applications.
527_atlanta atlanta In , DeKalb earned the   's "Green Communities" designation for its efforts in conserving energy, water and fuel; investing in renewable energy; reducing waste; and protecting and restoring natural resources.
528_atlanta atlanta On  ,  gave  $ million to promote the beaches where the oil had not reached, and the company planned $15 million each for , , and .
529_atlanta atlanta The      bought digital billboards showing recent photos from the gulf coast beaches as far north as ,  and .
530_atlanta atlanta Along with assurances that the beaches were so far unaffected, hotels cut rates and offered deals such as free golf.
531_atlanta atlanta Also, cancellation policies were changed, and refunds were promised to those where oil may have arrived.
532_atlanta atlanta However, revenues remained below  levels.
533_atlanta atlanta The city of  also has  of the highest  populations per capita.
534_atlanta atlanta It ranks  of all major cities, behind     and slightly behind , with 12.8% of the city's total population recognizing themselves as gay, lesbian, or bisexual.
535_atlanta atlanta According to the    Census (revised in ),  has the  highest proportion of single-person households nationwide among cities of  or more residents, which was at 38.5%.
536_atlanta atlanta is increasingly international, with its  foreign-born residents in , a 69% increase versus .
537_atlanta atlanta This was the  largest rate of growth among the nation's top  metros, after ,  and  .
538_atlanta atlanta The foreign-born proportion of the population went up from 10.3%  13.6%, and  moved up from    in ranking of  metro areas with the largest immigrant population by sheer numbers.
539_atlanta atlanta Still, its 13.6% proportion of immigrants is only the  highest of the nation's top  metros.
540_atlanta atlanta Hispanic  are the fastest growing ethnic group.
541_atlanta atlanta At 10.4% of the metro's population in , versus only 6.5% in , the metro's Hispanic population increased an astounding 103.6%, or  people, in  .
542_atlanta atlanta groups include  ,    and  .
543_atlanta atlanta All of those groups' populations increased by over 90% in the  period.
544_atlanta atlanta Of the metro's 279,000-person increase in the  population from   ,  came in  ,  in ,  in Fuln (all but  outside the city of ),  in Hall, and  in  .
