0 atlanta The cyclone produced winds of 60 mph (95 km/h) on Grand Bahama. The cyclone produced winds of  mph ( km/h) on  .
1 atlanta The duration of hurricane force winds ranged from 1–3 hours in the Abaco Islands, and five sponge fishing vessels were lost due to the hurricane. The duration of hurricane force winds ranged from –  in the  , and  sponge fishing vessels were lost due to the hurricane.
2 atlanta The cyclone caused 14 deaths in the islands. The cyclone caused  deaths in the islands.
3 atlanta In Fort Lauderdale, winds unroofed several homes, and canals overflowed. In  , winds unroofed several homes, and canals overflowed.
4 atlanta In South Florida, the hurricane dismantled communication lines, and "telegraph companies relayed" messages via Jacksonville and Atlanta. In  , the hurricane dismantled communication lines, and "telegraph companies relayed" messages via  and .
5 atlanta High waves flooded Miami Beach. High waves flooded  .
6 atlanta Ten feet (3.5 m) of the Miami Beach causeway was eroded, and police halted traffic between Miami Beach and the mainland. feet ( m) of the   causeway was eroded, and police halted traffic between   and the mainland.
7 atlanta The death toll in Florida was low because of well executed warnings and advisories. The death toll in  was low because of well executed warnings and advisories.
8 atlanta Winds shattered numerous plate glass windows in Miami's business district, while signs, roofing materials, and vegetation littered streets. Winds shattered numerous plate glass windows in 's business district, while signs, roofing materials, and vegetation littered streets.
9 atlanta 50 homes lost their roofs in Hollywood and Dania, and the oceanfront boardwalk was destroyed. homes lost their roofs in  and , and the oceanfront boardwalk was destroyed.
10 atlanta Precipitation damaged equipment at the Hollywood Beach Hotel, where many windows were broken. Precipitation damaged equipment at the   , where many windows were broken.
11 atlanta Construction standards were improved in the aftermath of the 1928 Okeechobee Hurricane, reducing damages in subsequent storms. Construction standards were improved in the aftermath of the  Okeechobee Hurricane, reducing damages in subsequent storms.
12 atlanta 35 people were treated for injuries at local hospitals. people were treated for injuries at local hospitals.
13 atlanta Southeastern Miami was flooded by three feet (915 mm) of water. was flooded by  feet ( mm) of water.
14 atlanta The hurricane produced light rainfall in Miami that peaked at 4.04 inches (102.5 mm). The hurricane produced light rainfall in  that peaked at  inches ( mm).
15 atlanta Five deaths were reported in Florida. deaths were reported in .
16 atlanta Total damages in Florida reached $5,500,000 in the Miami–Fort Lauderdale area. Total damages in  reached $5,500,000 in the –  area.
17 atlanta This early morning tornado was a double tornado event. tornado was a double tornado event.
18 atlanta One tornado moved in from the Atlanta highway, while the other moved in from the Dawsonville highway. tornado moved in from the  highway, while the other moved in from the  highway.
19 atlanta The two merged on Grove Street and destroyed everything in sight, causing wreckage pileups of up to 10 feet in some places. The  merged on Grove Street and destroyed everything in sight, causing wreckage pileups of up to  feet in some places.
20 atlanta The worst tornado-caused death toll in a single building in U.S. history was at the Cooper Pants Factory. The worst tornado-caused death toll in a single building in  history was at the Cooper Pants Factory.
21 atlanta The multiple story building, filled with young workers, collapsed and caught fire, killing 70 people. The multiple story building, filled with young workers, collapsed and caught fire, killing  people.
22 atlanta At the Pacolet Mill, 550 workers averted a tragedy by moving to the northeast side of the building. At the Pacolet Mill,  workers averted a tragedy by moving to the northeast side of the building.
23 atlanta Many people sought refuge in Newman's department store; however, it collapsed, killing 20 people. Many people sought refuge in 's department store; however, it collapsed, killing  people.
24 atlanta A strong upper level trough led to the formation of a low pressure area in the eastern Gulf of Mexico, on August 17. A strong upper level trough led to the formation  a low pressure area in the eastern   , on  .
25 atlanta This low became a tropical depression on August 18. This low became a tropical depression on  .
26 atlanta After drifting to the east-southeast, a pressure of a  occurred on August 19. After drifting to the east-southeast, a pressure of a  occurred on  .
27 atlanta The storm rapidly moved to the northeast, reaching tropical storm strength on the way. The storm rapidly moved to the northeast, reaching tropical storm strength on the way.
28 atlanta After passing over Florida, Dottie moved to the north, reaching a peak of 50 mph (85 km/h) winds. After passing over ,  moved to the north, reaching a peak of  mph ( km/h) winds.
29 atlanta Conditions appeared favorable, and a hurricane watch was issued. Conditions appeared favorable, and a hurricane watch was issued.
30 atlanta However, upper-level winds ripped the storm apart on August 20, and it was barely a tropical storm at its South Carolina landfall on August 21. However, upper-level winds ripped the storm apart on  , and it was barely a tropical storm at its   landfall on  .
31 atlanta It weakened to a tropical depression, and advisories were stopped, later on August 21. It weakened to a tropical depression, and advisories were stopped, later on  .
32 atlanta A tide in Atlanta Beach, North Carolina reached  above normal. A tide in  ,   reached  above normal.
33 atlanta The remnant low of the system followed its track, moving southwestward into Florida, bringing more rain to the area. The remnant low of the system followed its track, moving southwestward into , bringing more rain to the area.
34 atlanta A total of 10.68 in (271.3 mm) of rain fell at Fort Lauderdale. A total of  in ( mm) of rain fell at  .
35 atlanta Dottie lost its identity after re-entering the Gulf of Mexico on August 25. lost its identity after re-entering the    on  .
36 atlanta Damage was minor, but four deaths occurred due to a fishing boat sinking over the Bahamas. Damage was minor, but  deaths occurred due to a fishing boat sinking over the .
37 atlanta This outbreak was also part of a larger storm system that was responsible for producing severe weather across a much wider area of the eastern U.S.  On the previous day, weaker tornadoes had been reported in scattered locations from Louisiana to Alabama, and a thunderstorm-caused flash flood was suspected to be the cause of a train derailment in north Florida. This outbreak was also part of a larger storm system that was responsible for producing severe wear across a much wider area of  eastern   On   , weaker tornadoes had been reported in scattered locations from  to , and a thunderstorm-caused flash flood was suspected to be  cause of a train derailment in north .
38 atlanta The northern part of the same system first spawned additional severe (non-tornadic) thunderstorms, which caused 4 additional deaths in Maryland and Pennsylvania, before then dropping snow, sleet and ice across a wide area of the northeast. The northern part of the same system  spawned additional severe (non-tornadic) thunderstorms, which caused  additional deaths in  and , before then dropping snow, sleet and ice across a wide area of the northeast.
39 atlanta The thunderstorms which produced the tornado outbreak were also responsible (according to the same data) for numerous reports of large hail and wind damage in Appalachian southwest North Carolina, and numerous larger cities (Atlanta, GA, Greenville, SC, Columbia, SC, Charlotte, North Carolina, Fayetteville, NC, Raleigh, North Carolina, Suffolk, VA, Norfolk, VA) at the periphery of the outbreak, with wind damage from thunderstorms reported as far north as Delaware. The thunderstorms which produced the tornado outbreak were also responsible (according to the same data) for numerous reports of large hail and wind damage in  southwest  , and numerous larger cities (, GA, , , , , ,  , , , ,  , , , , ) at the periphery of the outbreak, with wind damage from thunderstorms reported as far north as .
40 atlanta Temperatures accompanying the storm were unseasonably cold for late winter so close to spring: average daily maximum temperatures, in mid-March, are around  in Boston,  in Philadelphia, and  in Atlanta. Temperatures accompanying the storm were unseasonably cold for   so close to : average daily maximum temperatures, in mid-March, are around  in ,  in , and  in .
41 atlanta During the 1993 storm, these places were all below freezing, and parts of New England saw daily maximum temperatures as low as . During the  storm, these places were all below freezing, and parts of   saw daily maximum temperatures as low as .
42 atlanta Record low temperatures for March were recorded in much of the southern U.S.  Birmingham recorded a record low of  during the storm. Record low temperatures for  were recorded in much of the southern    recorded a record low of  during the storm.
43 atlanta This storm complex was massive, affecting at least 26 U.S. states and much of eastern Canada. This storm complex was massive, affecting at least   states and much of eastern .
44 atlanta Bringing cold air along with heavy precipitation and hurricane force winds, it caused a blizzard over much of the area it affected, including thundersnow from Texas to Pennsylvania and widespread whiteout conditions. Bringing cold air along with heavy precipitation and hurricane force winds, it caused a blizzard over much of the area it affected, including thundersnow from  to  and widespread whiteout conditions.
45 atlanta Snow fell as far south and east as Jacksonville, Florida, and areas of the Florida Panhandle got several inches of snow, making it the most significant winter storm to affect the state since 1899. Snow fell as far south and east as , , and areas of the   got several inches of snow, making it the most significant  storm to affect the state since .
46 atlanta Ice pellets (sleet) mixed in with the rain as temperatures in Tampa, in west-central Florida, hovered not far above freezing after the front passed. Ice pellets (sleet) mixed in with the rain as temperatures in , in west-central , hovered not far above freezing after the front passed.
47 atlanta The storm severely impacted both ground and air travel. The storm severely impacted both ground and air travel.
48 atlanta Airports were closed all along the Eastern seaboard, and flights were cancelled or, if already underway, diverted, stranding many passengers. Airports were closed all along the  seaboard, and flights were cancelled or, if already underway, diverted, stranding many passengers.
49 atlanta Every airport from Halifax, Nova Scotia to Atlanta, Georgia was closed for some time because of the storm. Every airport from ,   to ,  was closed for some time because of the storm.
50 atlanta Highway travel was closed or restricted all across the affected region, even in states generally well-prepared for snow events. Highway travel was closed or restricted all across the affected region, even in states generally well-prepared for snow events.
51 atlanta There was some sense of imminent threat in Grand Forks, but the cities could not prepare for such an enormous flood. There was some sense of imminent threat in  , but the cities could not prepare for such an enormous flood.
52 atlanta The National Weather Service (NWS) had a long-standing forecast for the river to crest at 49 feet (14.9 m), which was the river's highest level during the 1979 flood. The    (NWS) had a long-standing forecast for the river to crest at  feet ( m), which was the river's highest level during the  flood.
53 atlanta The cities had been able to get their dikes to this level, but the river continued to rise past it, to the astonishment of the NWS (which didn't upgrade its forecast until April 16, the day the river actually reached 49 feet). The cities had been able to get ir dikes to this level but  river continued to rise  it to  astonishment of   (which didn't upgrade its forecast until      river actually reached  feet).
54 atlanta The dikes in the low-lying Lincoln Drive neighborhood of Grand Forks were the first to break, doing so early on April 18. The dikes in the low-lying   neighborhood of   were the  to break, doing so early on  .
55 atlanta Other dikes over Grand Forks and East Grand Forks area failed that day and the next, flooding thousands of homes. Other dikes over   and    area failed that  and the next, flooding thousands of homes.
56 atlanta During this time, Grand Forks mayor Pat Owens ordered the evacuation of over 50,000 people, which up to that time, had been the largest evacuation in the United States since the evacuation of residents in Atlanta, Georgia during the Civil War. During this time,   mayor   ordered the evacuation of over  people, which up to that time, had been the largest evacuation in the   since the evacuation of residents in ,  during the  .
57 atlanta The "Dunwoody tornado" was a significant tornado that tore across the northern suburbs of metro Atlanta on April 9, 1998. The "Dunwoody tornado" was a significant tornado that tore across the northern suburbs of metro  on   18.
58 atlanta It struck parts of the four most populous counties in Georgia: Cobb, Fulton, DeKalb, and Gwinnett. It struck parts of the  most populous counties in : Cobb, , DeKalb, and .
59 atlanta The most severe damage was in the Dunwoody area, where the storm reached a high-end F2 on the Fujita scale, making it one of the strongest and most damaging recorded to have hit that area. The most severe damage was in the  area, where the storm reached a high-end F2 on the  scale, making it  of the strongest and most damaging recorded to have hit that area.
60 atlanta The funnel passed directly over Atlanta's other major edge city at Perimeter Center, and after sparing the many high-rises there, the most severe part of the tornado began through Dunwoody. The funnel passed directly over 's other major edge city at Perimeter Center, and after sparing the many high-rises there, the most severe part of the tornado began through .
61 atlanta Its intensity increased to high-end F2 strength with winds up to , and its width to nearly a half mile (800m), damaging thousands of homes and downing tens of thousands of native pine and hardwood forest trees. Its intensity increased to high-end F2 strength with winds up to , and its width to nearly a half mile (800m), damaging thousands of homes and downing tens of thousands of native pine and hardwood forest trees.
62 atlanta Hundreds of homes had major damage, a few dozen were destroyed (or nearly so) and were condemned, and had to be completely rebuilt. Hundreds of homes had major damage, a few  were destroyed (or nearly so) and were condemned, and had to be completely rebuilt.
63 atlanta Significant damage also occurred to the campus of Georgia Perimeter College. Significant damage also occurred to the campus of   .
64 atlanta Like the 2008 Atlanta tornado that struck downtown Atlanta, this storm caused an estimated $250 million in damage. Like the   tornado that struck downtown , this storm caused an estimated $250 million in damage.
65 atlanta This was far more than the also well-remembered "governor's tornado" in March 1975. This was far more than the also well-remembered "governor's tornado" in  .
66 atlanta The outbreak began as the remnants of Cindy weakened over Louisiana. The outbreak began as the remnants of  weakened over .
67 atlanta As the storm weakened, strong thunderstorms began to develop along the edges of the system in Alabama. As the storm weakened, strong thunderstorms began to develop along the edges of the system in .
68 atlanta The first tornado touched down near Semmes, Alabama at 3:00 A.M. (CST). The  tornado touched down near ,  at 3:00 A.M. (CST).
69 atlanta The tornado caused roof damage to several structures as well as knocking down several trees. The tornado caused roof damage to several structures as well as knocking down several trees.
70 atlanta Over the next ten hours, several "F0" and two "F1" tornadoes touched down in Alabama and Florida. Over    , several "F0" and  "F1" tornadoes touched down in  and .
71 atlanta Later on July 6, the remnants of Cindy were moving over Alabama and the activity shifted into Georgia. Later on  , the remnants of  were moving over  and the activity shifted into .
72 atlanta At 8:45 PM (EST), a large tornado touched down near the Atlanta Motor Speedway causing severe damage to the structures in the complex. At 8:45 PM (EST), a large tornado touched down near the  Motor Speedway causing severe damage to the structures in the complex.
73 atlanta The tornado then moved into an airfield where several planes and helicopters were damaged. The tornado then moved into an airfield where several planes and helicopters were damaged.
74 atlanta Numerous homes were damaged or destroyed by the tornado as well. Numerous homes were damaged or destroyed by the tornado as well.
75 atlanta The tornado was rated "F2" by the NWS. The tornado was rated "F2" by the NWS.
76 atlanta The activity slowed for a short while before picking back up in early afternoon hours on July 7 as the remnants of Cindy moved through Georgia. The activity slowed for a short while before picking back up in early afterno hours    as the remnants of  moved through .
77 atlanta At 2:10PM (EST) an "F2" tornado touched down about seven miles south of Taylorsville, North Carolina where three buildings were damaged a mobile home was destroyed. At 2:10PM (EST) an "F2" tornado touched down about  miles south of ,   where  buildings were damaged a mobile home was destroyed.
78 atlanta About an hour later, another "F2" tornado touched down in North Carolina. , other "F2" tornado touched down in  .
79 atlanta It touched down about four miles north-northeast of Harmony. It touched down about  miles north-northeast of Harmony.
80 atlanta The tornado damaged several buildings before moving into Yadkin County where an additional 13 buildings were damaged as well as severe crop damage to the tobacco and corn farms. The tornado damaged several buildings before moving into   where an additional  buildings were damaged as well as severe crop damage to the tobacco and corn farms.
81 atlanta By the nighttime hours, the activity was shifting into Virginia. By the nighttime , the activity was shifting into .
82 atlanta Before the remnants of Cindy moved out into the Atlantic Ocean, seven "F1" tornadoes touched down in Virginia. Before the remnants of  moved out into the  ,  "F1" tornadoes touched down in .
83 atlanta The outbreak ended early on July 8 as Cindy began to move out over the Atlantic. The outbreak ended early on   as  began to move out over the .
84 atlanta The "2008 Atlanta tornado outbreak" was a tornado outbreak that affected the Southeastern United States on March 14–15, 2008. The "  tornado outbreak" was a tornado outbreak that affected the    on  – .
85 atlanta A tornado caused widespread damage across downtown Atlanta, including to the CNN Center and to the Georgia Dome, where the 2008 SEC Men's Basketball Tournament was postponed. A tornado caused widespread damage across downtown , including to    and to   Dome, where    Men's Basketball Tournament was postponed.
86 atlanta Other buildings that were damaged include the Georgia World Congress Center, Philips Arena (during an Atlanta Hawks game), and the Omni Hotel, which was evacuated after many windows were blown out. Other buildings that were damaged include the    ,   (during an   game), and the Omni Hotel, which was evacuated after many windows were blown out.
87 atlanta The Westin Peachtree Plaza suffered major window damage. The Westin Peachtree Plaza suffered major window damage.
88 atlanta The image of the building with all the windows blown out became famous and, for a time, was the symbol of the tornado. The image of the building with all the windows blown out became famous and, for a time, was the symbol of the tornado.
89 atlanta Centennial Olympic Park, the SunTrust Tower and historic Oakland Cemetery were also damaged. Centennial  , the SunTrust Tower and historic   were also damaged.
90 atlanta One man was killed near downtown Atlanta and 30 others were injured. man was killed near downtown  and  others were injured.
91 atlanta Two other deaths took place on March 15 in the northern Atlanta suburbs from the second, larger round of severe weather and tornadoes. other deaths took place on   in the northern  suburbs from the , larger round of severe weather and tornadoes.
92 atlanta In total, 45 tornadoes were confirmed over the 24 hour period from eastern Alabama to the Carolina coast, with most of the activity concentrated in the Metropolitan Atlanta area, the Central Savannah River Area and the Midlands of South Carolina. In total,  tornadoes were confirmed over    period from eastern  to   coast, with most of  activity concentrated in    area,      and  Midlands of  .
93 atlanta In their 9:00 pm EDT outlook, the Storm Prediction Center issued a slight risk of severe weather across portions of the southern United States from Oklahoma to Georgia, with a 2% risk area for tornadoes for the Atlanta area. In their 9:00 pm EDT outlook, the Storm Prediction Center issued a slight risk of severe weather across portions of the southern   from  to , with a 2% risk area for tornadoes for the  area.
94 atlanta A tornado warning was issued for Atlanta at 9:26 pm when the thunderstorm that caused the tornado was  to the northwest of the downtown area, although no watches were in effect for the area due to the low probability and unusual isolated nature. A tornado warning was issued for  at 9:26 pm when the thunderstorm that caused the tornado was  to the northwest of the downtown area, although no watches were in effect for the area due to the low probability and unusual isolated nature.
95 atlanta The tornado drifted southward as it moved eastward, whereas most tornadic storms have a strong northward component along (or ahead of) a cold front. The tornado drifted southward as it moved eastward, whereas most tornadic storms have a strong northward component along (or ahead of) a cold front.
96 atlanta It also was unusual because it was not associated with such a squall line at all, but was an independent supercell drifting well ahead of the main storm system. It also was unusual because it was not associated with such a squall line at all, but was an independent supercell drifting well ahead of the main storm system.
97 atlanta The Ritz Carlton, Westin Peachtree Plaza, Georgia-Pacific Building, SunTrust Tower (where more than 60 people had to be relocated out of their offices), Equitable Building, and Georgia State University also had windows blown out (300 at Equitable alone), as did The Tabernacle (a former church with stained glass that is now a concert venue). The Ritz Carlton,   ,  , SunTrust Tower (where more than  people had to be relocated out of their offices),  , and    also had windows blown out ( at  alone), as did The Tabernacle (a former church with stained glass that is  a concert venue).
98 atlanta The windows of the Westin continued to fall for days after the tornado, forcing police to keep several city blocks and MARTA's Peachtree Center station closed to pedestrians. The windows of the  continued to fall for  after the tornado, forcing police to keep several city blocks and 's   station closed to pedestrians.
99 atlanta The Georgia World Congress Center also sustained flooding while hosting a JROTC event and the Hinman Dental Meeting; Fox Sports Net took footage of a staircase in the new section of the complex that looked like a fountain with water cascading down it. The     also sustained flooding while hosting a JROTC event and the       took footage of a staircase in the new section of the complex that looked like a fountain with water cascading down it.
100 atlanta The annual Atlanta Home Show and all other events were cancelled for the weekend in the GWCC complex, as was the Atlanta St. Patrick's Day Parade scheduled for the next day. The annual  Home Show and all or events were cancelled for   in   complex, as was      Parade scheduled for   .
101 atlanta WRAS FM at Georgia State University was off the air for two days, though it was not stated whether its studio or tower sustained damage, or if this were due to security or safety concerns, or power outages. WRAS FM at    was off the air for  , though it was not stated whether its studio or tower sustained damage, or if this were due to security or safety concerns, or power outages.
102 atlanta The historic Rialto Theatre at GSU also sustained roof damage, which in turn caused water damage inside. The historic Rialto Theatre at  also sustained roof damage, which in turn caused water damage inside.
103 atlanta Hundreds of people were rescued by boat from their homes, and at least ten people died, mostly in their cars by driving where water crossed the road, which motorists were repeatedly warned against on local radio and TV. Hundreds of people were rescued by boat from their homes, and at least  people died, mostly in their cars by driving where water crossed the road, which motorists were repeatedly warned against on local radio and TV.
104 atlanta The American Red Cross started emergency shelters in each county affected by the floods. The    started emergency shelters in each county affected by the floods.
105 atlanta Most Atlanta area school districts were closed September 21, due to floodwaters and the difficulty for school buses to get around the hundreds of closed roads. Most  area school districts were closed  , due to floodwaters and the difficulty for school buses to get around the hundreds of closed roads.
106 atlanta On Monday, September 21, Sweetwater Creek rose to its highest level ever. On      rose to its highest level ever.
107 atlanta On September 22, The United States Geological Survey measured the greatest flow ever recorded on Sweetwater Creek, at . On  , The   Geological Survey measured the greatest flow ever recorded on  , at .
108 atlanta The flooding from the creek was met with water from the swollen Chattahoochee river, which blocked Interstate 20 west of Atlanta for two days. The flooding from the creek was met with water from the swollen  , which blocked Interstate  west of  for  .
109 atlanta Many homes and businesses in the area were completely submerged. Many homes and businesses in the area were completely submerged.
110 atlanta Located along the Chattahoochee River in west Atlanta, the R.M. Clayton sewage treatment plant, the largest in the Southeastern U.S., was swamped with four feet of water as the river rose by twelve additional feet. Located along the   in west , the   sewage treatment plant, the largest in the  , was swamped with  feet of water as the river rose by  additional feet.
111 atlanta Millions of gallons of untreated sewage were released into the rising waters. Millions of gallons of untreated sewage were released into the rising waters.
112 atlanta Other plants in Cobb and Gwinnett counties experienced similar spills. Other plants in  and  counties experienced similar spills.
113 atlanta Also located near the Chattahoochee, a Kellogg Company food plant was flooded, resulting in the closure of the plant and a subsequent national shortage of waffles. Also located near the , a   food plant was flooded, resulting in the closure of the plant and a subsequent national shortage of waffles.
114 atlanta The "2009 Southeastern United States floods" were a group of floods that affected several counties throughout northern Georgia,  Tennessee, Alabama, Mississippi and Arkansas. The " Southeastern   floods" were a group of floods that affected several counties throughout northern ,  , ,  and .
115 atlanta Some of the worst flooding took place most around the Atlanta metropolitan area. Some of the worst flooding took place most around the  metropolitan area.
116 atlanta Continuous rain, spawned by moisture pulled from the Gulf of Mexico, fell faster than the local watersheds could drain the runoff. Continuous rain, spawned by moisture pulled from the   , fell faster than the local watersheds could drain the runf.
117 atlanta Rain began falling on the Atlanta area on September 15, 2009, with the National Weather Service reporting only 0.04 inches that day at the Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport. Rain began falling on the  area on    with the    reporting only  inches that  at the    .
118 atlanta Additional rain fell throughout the week, with only a trace amount recorded for September 18. Additional rain fell throughout  , with only a trace amount recorded for  .
119 atlanta However, a large rain event began to inundate the area on September 19. However, a large rain event began to inundate the area on  .
120 atlanta The official NWS monitoring station at the Atlanta airport recorded  of rainfall from daybreak to 8pm (more than doubling the previous record for rainfall on that date), while outlying monitoring stations recorded  of rainfall in a 13-hour period. The official  monitoring station at the  airport recorded  of rainfall from daybreak to 8pm (more than doubling the previous record for rainfall on that date), while outlying monitoring stations recorded  of rainfall in a  period.
121 atlanta Flooding began in one neighborhood that day, with the remainder of the area placed under a flash flood watch for the rest of the weekend. Flooding began in  neighborhood that , with  remainder of  area placed under a flash flood watch for  rest of  .
122 atlanta While in conversion to the new airframe, the unit continued its mission of aerial weather reconnaissance and added a new weather-related mission type in 2003, using the WC-130Js to drop buoys ahead of impending tropical storms. While in conversion to the new airframe, the unit continued its mission of aerial weather reconnaissance and added a new weather-related mission type in , using the WC-130Js to drop buoys ahead of impending tropical storms.
123 atlanta In 2004, the unit started training to support tactical airlift missions in addition to its weather mission. In , the unit started training to support tactical airlift missions in addition to its weather mission.
124 atlanta The landfall of Hurricane Katrina on 29 August 2005 caused devastating damage to Keesler Air Force Base. The landfall of Hurricane Katrina on    caused devastating damage to    .
125 atlanta The equipment and personnel of the squadron were flying out of Dobbins Air Reserve Base near Atlanta, Georgia when the hurricane struck and never missed a tasked mission. The equipment and personnel of the squadron were flying out of     near ,  when the hurricane struck and never missed a tasked mission.
126 atlanta Other concerns include harvests of oysters in Apalachicola Bay, which require a large enough flow of fresh water to prevent excessive saltwater intrusion from the Gulf. Other concerns include harvests of oysters in  , which require a large enough flow of fresh water to prevent excessive saltwater intrusion from the Gulf.
127 atlanta The cost of dredging silt, much of it from uncontrolled growth across metro Atlanta's fine red clay soil, has also been called wasteful to float so little ship traffic. The cost of dredging silt, much of it from uncontrolled growth across metro 's fine red clay soil, has also been called wasteful to float so little ship traffic.
128 atlanta The largest, the Riverdale LNG plant in Riverdale, Georgia, has storage capacity of 31,080,000 gallons or 2,560,000 million cubic feet (Mcf) of natural gas in its two tanks. The largest, the  LNG plant in , , has storage capacity of  gallons or   cubic feet (Mcf) of natural gas in its  tanks.
129 atlanta Located south of Atlanta, the plant is supplied by two interstate pipelines for supply. Located south of , the plant is supplied by  interstate pipelines for supply.
130 atlanta It is connected to the Atlanta Gas Light beltline pipeline system for distribution of gas to the Atlanta market. It is connected to the  Gas Light beltline pipeline system for distribution of gas to the  market.
131 atlanta The plant is able to deliver 400,000 Mcf/day of gas during peak send-out. The plant is able to deliver  Mcf/day of gas during peak send-out.
132 atlanta Atlanta Gas Light, is the largest natural gas distributor in the Southeast, and is the AGL in AGL Resources. Gas Light, is the largest natural gas distributor in the Southeast, and is the  in  Resources.
133 atlanta It was founded in 1856 and is also headquartered in Atlanta. It was founded in  and is also headquartered in .
134 atlanta It distributes to more than 1.6 million residential, commercial, and industrial customers in 243 communities throughout the state of Georgia. It distributes to more than   residential, commercial, and industrial customers in  communities throughout the state of .
135 atlanta The Cherokee LNG plant, located north of Atlanta in Ball Ground, Georgia, has storage capacity of 25,242,957 gallons or 2,020,237 Mcf equivalent of natural gas in a single tank. The Cherokee LNG plant, located north of  in  , , has storage capacity of  gallons or  Mcf equivalent of natural gas in a single tank.
136 atlanta The  site was designed to accommodate a second tank of equal capacity if warranted. The  site ws designed to ccommodte   tnk of equl cpcity if wrrnted.
137 atlanta This plant receives supply from three pipelines and can deliver an equivalent of 400,000 Mcf/day of peak send-out to AGL's Atlanta market. This plant receives supply from  pipelines and can deliver an equivalent of  Mcf/day of peak send-out to 's  market.
138 atlanta Although Adam4Adam has members of all ethnic groups, the percentage of non-White men represented in member profiles is higher than the percentage of non-White people in the United States population, though the degree to which this is true varies by city/region. Although Adam4Adam has members of all ethnic groups, the percentage of  men represented in member profiles is higher than the percentage of  people in the   population, though the degree to which this is true varies by city/region.
139 atlanta For instance, research into demographic representation in Atlanta,  San Francisco,  and New York City  profiles evidences a trend of higher representations of men of color among younger age cohorts, with decreasing diversity in profiles as age increase. For instance, research into demographic representation in ,   ,  and     profiles evidences a trend of higher representations of men of color among younger age cohorts, with decreasing diversity in profiles as age increase.
140 atlanta This is also true of Adam4Adam membership in the United Kingdom. This is also true of Adam4Adam membership in the  .
141 atlanta The course plans were drawn by the McLaughlin Whitewater Design Group, architects of the Ocoee Whitewater Center, which served as the canoe slalom venue for the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta. The course plans were drawn by     , architects of    , which served as  canoe slalom venue for     in .
142 atlanta The Ocoee facility is the only Olympic whitewater venue built in a riverbed, using natural boulders to direct the water flow, and McLaughlin used a similar design at McHenry -- with a channel shaped like a natural streambed and lined with natural boulders blasted from the mountaintop. The Ocoee facility is the only  whitewater venue built in a riverbed, using natural boulders to direct the water flow, and  used a similar design at  -- with a channel shaped like a natural streambed and lined with natural boulders blasted from the mountaintop.
143 atlanta The purpose was both aesthetic and practical. The purpose was both aesthetic and practical.
144 atlanta Irregular surfaces dampen the water surges that can occur in geometrically regular artificial channels. Irregular surfaces dampen the water surges that can occur in geometrically regular artificial channels.
145 atlanta Immigrants from Africa typically settle in heavily urban areas upon arrival into the U.S. Areas such as Washington, D.C., New York, Columbus, Ohio, Atlanta and Minneapolis have heavy concentrations of African immigrant populations. Immigrants from  typically settle in heavily urban areas upon arrival into the  Areas such as , ,  , , ,  and  have heavy concentrations of n immigrant populations.
146 atlanta Often there are clusters of nationalities within these cities. Often there are clusters of nationalities within these cities.
147 atlanta The longer African immigrants live in the United States, the more likely they are to live in suburban areas. The longer  immigrants live in the  , the more likely they are to live in suburban areas.
148 atlanta After the war, northern parts of Appalachia experienced an economic boom, while economies in the southern parts of the region stagnated, especially as Southern Democrats regained control of their respective state legislatures at the end of Reconstruction. After the war, northern parts of  experienced an economic boom, while economies in the southern parts of the region stagnated, especially as   regained control of their respective state legislatures at the end of Reconstruction.
149 atlanta Pittsburgh and its surrounding areas in western Pennsylvania grew into one of the nation's major industrial centers, especially regarding iron and steel production. and its surrounding areas in western  grew into  of the nation's major industrial centers, especially regarding iron and steel production.
150 atlanta By 1900, the Chattanooga area and north Georgia and northern Alabama had experienced similar changes due to manufacturing booms in Atlanta and Birmingham at the edge of the Appalachian region. By , the  area and north  and northern  had experienced similar changes due to manufacturing booms in  and  at the edge of the  region.
151 atlanta Railroad construction between the 1880s and early 20th century gave the greater nation access to the vast coalfields in central Appalachia, making the economy in that part of the region practically synonymous with coal mining. Railroad construction between   and    gave  greater nation access to  vast coalfields in central , making  economy in that part of  region practically synonymous with coal mining.
152 atlanta As the nationwide demand for timber skyrocketed, lumber firms turned to the virgin forests of southern Appalachia, using sawmill and logging railroad innovations to reach remote timber stands. As the nationwide demand for timber skyrocketed, lumber firms turned to the virgin forests of southern , using sawmill and logging railroad innovations to reach remote timber stands.
153 atlanta The Tri-Cities area of Tennessee and Virginia and the Kanawha Valley of West Virginia became major petrochemical production centers. The  area   and  and the      became major petrochemical production centers.
154 atlanta As the bulk of the activity exited Alabama, the severe weather reached the Atlanta metropolitan area late during the evening. As the bulk of the activity exited , the severe weather reached the  metropolitan area late during the evening.
155 atlanta Two tornadoes both rated F2 touched down in the northern suburbs of Atlanta. tornadoes both rated F2 touched down in the northern suburbs of .
156 atlanta One of the tornadoes killed one person in DeKalb County. of the tornadoes killed  person in  .
157 atlanta Activity persisted through the early hours of April 9 where two more killer tornadoes touched down west of Savannah. Activity persisted through       where  more killer tornadoes touched down west  .
158 atlanta An F3 tornado near Blitchton in Bryan County killed two people and injured 15 others while damaging or destroying nearly 90 homes. An F3 tornado near  in   killed  people and injured  others while damaging or destroying nearly  homes.
159 atlanta An F2 tornado further south in Long and Liberty Counties killed 4 including 3 mobile home occupants in Rye Patch and one soldier at Fort Stewart Army Base. An F2 tornado further south in Long and Liberty Counties killed  including  mobile home occupants in   and  soldier at    .
160 atlanta Conditions changed on April 7 in the South as the system moved eastward, with the cold front entering a more conducive environment. Conditions changed on   in the  as the system moved eastward, with the cold front entering a more conducive environment.
161 atlanta The increased wind shear, combined with the high heat and humidity, allowed tornadoes to begin forming in the late morning, continuing throughout the afternoon, evening, and even into the overnight hours. The increased wind shear, combined with the high heat and humidity, allowed tornadoes to begin forming in the late morning, continuing throughout the afternoon, evening, and even into the overnight .
162 atlanta By the end of the day, a total of 48 tornadoes had been reported, several of which caused significant damage and loss of life. By     , a total   tornadoes had been reported, several  which caused significant damage and loss  life.
163 atlanta The most violent tornadoes hit in Middle Tennessee, where 12 people were killed. The most violent tornadoes hit in  , where  people were killed.
164 atlanta In addition to the tornadoes, there were many reports of hail as large as baseballs, powerful microbursts and straight-line winds, as well as local flooding. In addition to the tornadoes, there were many reports of hail as large as baseballs, powerful microbursts and straight-line winds, as well as local flooding.
165 atlanta Extensive damage was also reported in the northern suburbs of Atlanta, Georgia as the storms reached that area overnight into the early morning of April 8. Extensive damage was also reported in the northern suburbs  ,  as the storms reached that area overnight into the     .
166 atlanta Large metropolitan areas have been the destination of most resettlements, with 72% of all resettlements between 1983 and 2004 going to 30 locations. Large metropolitan areas have been the destination of most resettlements, with 72% of all resettlements between    going to  locations.
167 atlanta The historical gateways for resettled refugees have been California (specifically Los Angeles, Orange County, San Jose, and Sacramento), the Mid-Atlantic region (New York in particular), the Midwest (specifically Chicago and Minneapolis-St. The historical gateways for resettled refugees have been  (specifically  ,  ,  , and ), the  region (  in particular), the  (specifically  and Minneapolis-St.
168 atlanta Paul) and Providence, Rhode Island. ) and ,  .
169 atlanta In the last decades of the twentieth century, Washington, D.C.; Seattle, Washington; Portland, Oregon; and Atlanta, Georgia were recognized as new gateways for resettled refugees. In       , , ; , ; , ; and ,  were recognized as new gateways for resettled refugees.
170 atlanta Particular cities are also identified with some national groups:  metropolitan Los Angeles received almost half of the resettled refugees from Iran, 20% of Iraqi refugees went to Detroit, and nearly one-third of refugees from the former Soviet Union were resettled in New York. Particular cities are also identified with some national groups:  metropolitan   received almost half of the resettled refugees from , 20% of  refugees went to , and nearly  of refugees from the former   were resettled in  .
171 atlanta These ethnic enclaves partially result from attempts by the agencies organizing resettlement to place newly arrived refugees with family members already in the U.S. and in locations where government agencies and charities are known to have staff that speak the pertinent language. These ethnic enclaves partially result from attempts by the agencies organizing resettlement to place newly arrived refugees with family members already in the  and in locations where government agencies and charities are known to have staff that speak the pertinent language.
172 atlanta Ethnic grouping also results as refugees and migrants seek out the comfort of familiar languages, food and customs. Ethnic grouping also results as refugees and migrants seek out the comfort of familiar languages, food and customs.
173 atlanta During the 2000s, Atlanta underwent a profound transformation demographically, physically, and culturally. During  ,  underwent a profound transformation demographically, physically, and culturally.
174 atlanta Suburbanization, rising prices, a booming economy, and new migrants decreased the city’s black percentage from a high of 67% in 1990 to 54% in 2010. Suburbanization, rising prices, a booming economy, and new migrants decreased the city’s black percentage from a high of 67% in  to 54% in .
175 atlanta From 2000 to 2010, Atlanta gained 22,763 white residents, 5,142 Asian residents, and 3,095 Hispanic residents, while the city’s black population decreased by 31,678. From  to ,  gained  white residents,   residents, and   residents, while the city’s black population decreased by .
176 atlanta Much of the city’s demographic change during the decade was driven by young, college-educated professionals: from 2000 to 2009, the three-mile radius surrounding Downtown Atlanta gained 9,722 residents aged 25 to 34 holding at least a four-year degree, an increase of 61%. Much of  city’s demographic change during   was driven by young, college-educated professionals: from   ,  three-mile radius surrounding Downwn  gained  residents aged    holding at least a  degree, an increase of 61%.
177 atlanta Between the mid-1990s and 2010, stimulated by funding from the HOPE VI program, Atlanta demolished nearly all of its public housing, a total of 17,000 units and about 10% of all housing units in the city. Between   and , stimulated by funding from  HOPE VI program,  demolished nearly all of its public housing, a total of  units and about 10% of all housing units in  city.
178 atlanta In 2005, the $2.8 billion BeltLine project was adopted, with the stated goals of converting a disused 22-mile freight railroad loop that surrounds the central city into an art-filled multi-use trail and increasing the city’s park space by 40%. In , the $2.8 billion BeltLine project was adopted, with the stated goals of converting a disused 22-mile freight railroad loop that surrounds the central city into an art-filled multi-use trail and increasing the city’s park space by 40%.
179 atlanta Lastly, Atlanta’s cultural offerings expanded during the 2000s: the High Museum of Art doubled in size; the Alliance Theatre won a Tony Award; and numerous art galleries were established on the once-industrial Westside. Lastly, ’s cultural offerings expanded during  :  High Museum of Art doubled in size;  Alliance Theatre won a  ; and numerous art galleries were established on  once-industrial .
180 atlanta Atlanta's high elevation distinguishes it from most other southern and eastern cities, and contributes to a more temperate climate than is found in cities at similar latitudes. 's high elevation distinguishes it from most other southern and eastern cities, and contributes to a more temperate climate than is found in cities at similar latitudes.
181 atlanta Under the Köppen classification, it has a humid subtropical climate ("Cfa"), with very warm and humid summers and cool winters. Under the Köppen classification, it has a humid subtropical climate ("Cfa"), with very warm and humid summers and cool winters.
182 atlanta The warm, maritime air can bring spring-like highs while strong Arctic air masses can push lows into the teens (≤ −7 °C). The warm, maritime air can bring spring-like highs while strong  air masses can push lows into the teens ( − °C).
183 atlanta High temperatures in July average  but occasionally approach . High temperatures in  average  but occasionally approach .
184 atlanta Temperatures at or above  occur more than 40 days per year. Temperatures at or above  occur     per .
185 atlanta January averages , with temperatures in the suburbs slightly cooler. averages , with temperatures in the suburbs slightly cooler.
186 atlanta Overnight freezing can be expected over 45 days, but high temperatures that do not climb above the freezing mark are rare. Overnight freezing can be expected over  , but high temperatures that do not climb above the freezing mark are rare.
187 atlanta Extremes range from  in February 1899 to  in June 2012. Extremes range from  in   to  in  .
188 atlanta Typical of the southeastern U.S., Atlanta receives abundant rainfall that is relatively evenly distributed throughout the year, though spring and early fall are markedly drier. Typical of  souastern ,  receives abundant rain that is relatively evenly distributed throughout  , though  and   are markedly drier.
189 atlanta Average annual rainfall is . Average annual rainfall is .
190 atlanta Annual snowfall averages  annually. Annual snowfall averages  annually.
191 atlanta The heaviest single storm, known as the “Storm of the Century,” brought around  of snow in March 1993. The heaviest single storm, known as  “Storm of  ,” brought around  of snow in  .
192 atlanta However, ice storms usually cause more nuisance than snowfall does, the most severe of such storms occurring on January 7, 1973 and January 9, 2011. However ice storms usually cause more nuisance than snowfall does the most severe of such storms occurring on   13 and   .
193 atlanta Tornados are rare in the city itself, though twisters such as the March 14, 2008 EF2 tornado damaged prominent structures in downtown Atlanta. Tornados are rare in the city itself though twisters such as the    EF2 tornado damaged prominent structures in downtown .
194 atlanta The 2010 United States Census reported that Atlanta had a population of 420,003. The     reported that  had a population of .
195 atlanta The population density was 3,154 per square mile (1232/km2). The population density was  per square mile (1232/km2).
196 atlanta The racial makeup and population of Atlanta was 54.0% black or African American, 38.4% white, 3.1% Asian and 0.2% Native American. The racial makeup and population of  was 54.0% black or  , 38.4% white, 3.1%  and 0.2% Native .
197 atlanta Those from some other race made up 2.2% of the city’s population, while those from two or more races made up 2.0%. Those from some other race made up 2.2% of the city’s population, while those from  or more races made up 2.0%.
198 atlanta Hispanics of any race made up 5.2% of the city’s population. Hispanics of any race made up 5.2% of the city’s population.
199 atlanta The median income for a household in the city was $45,171. The median income for a household in the city was $45,171.
200 atlanta The per capita income for the city was $ 35,453. The per capita income for the city was $ 35,453.
201 atlanta 22.6% percent of the population was living below the poverty line. 22.6% percent of the population was living below the poverty line.
202 atlanta However, compared to the rest of the country, Atlanta's cost of living is 6.00% Lower than the U.S. average. However, compared to the rest of the country, 's cost of living is 6.00% Lower than the  average.
203 atlanta Atlanta has one of the highest LGBT populations per capita, ranking third among major American cities, behind San Francisco and slightly behind Seattle, with 12.8% of the city’s total population recognizing themselves as gay, lesbian, or bisexual. has  of the highest  populations per capita, ranking  among major  cities, behind   and slightly behind , with 12.8% of the city’s total population recognizing themselves as gay, lesbian, or bisexual.
204 atlanta Atlanta has recently undergone a drastic demographic increase in its white population. has  undergone a drastic demographic increase in its white population.
205 atlanta Between 2000 and 2010, the proportion of whites in the city's population grew faster than that of any other U.S. city. Between  and , the proportion of whites in the city's population grew faster than that of any other  city.
206 atlanta In that decade, Atlanta's white population grew from 31% to 38% of the city’s population, an absolute increase of 22,753 people, more than triple the increase that occurred between 1990 and 2000. In that , 's white population grew from 31% to 38% of the city’s population, an absolute increase of  people, more than triple the increase that occurred between   .
207 atlanta Out of the total population five years and older, 83.3% spoke only English at home, while 8.8% spoke Spanish, 3.9% another Indo-European language and 2.8% an Asian language. Out of the total population   and older, 83.3% spoke only  at home, while 8.8% spoke , 3.9% another  language and 2.8% an  language.
208 atlanta Atlanta’s dialect has traditionally been a variation of Southern American English. ’s dialect has traditionally been a variation of   .
209 atlanta The Chattahoochee River long formed a border between the Coastal Southern and Southern Appalachian dialects. The   long formed a border between the   and  Appalachian dialects.
210 atlanta However, by 2003, ‘‘Atlanta’’ magazine concluded that Atlanta had become significantly "de-Southernized," with a Southern accent considered a handicap in some circumstances. However, by , ‘‘’’ magazine concluded that  had become significantly "de-ized," with a  accent considered a handicap in some circumstances.
211 atlanta In general, Southern accents are less prevalent among residents of the city and inner suburbs and among younger people, while they are more common in the outer suburbs and among older people; this pattern coexists alongside Southern variations of African American Vernacular English. In general,  accents are less prevalent among residents of the city and inner suburbs and among younger people, while they are more common in the outer suburbs and among older people; this pattern coexists alongside  variations of    .
212 atlanta Largely due to a state-wide tax incentive enacted in 2005, the Georgia Entertainment Industry Investment Act, which awards qualified productions a transferable income tax credit of 20% of all in-state costs for film and television investments of $500,000 or more, Atlanta has become a center for film and television production. Largely due to a state-wide tax incentive enacted in , the     , which awards qualified productions a transferable income tax credit of 20% of all in-state costs for film and television investments of $500,000 or more,  has become a center for film and television production.
213 atlanta Film and television production facilities in Atlanta include Turner Studios, Tyler Perry Studios, Williams Street Productions, and the EUE/Screen Gems soundstages. Film and television production facilities in  include  ,   ,   , and the   soundstages.
214 atlanta Film and television production injected $1 billion into Georgia’s economy in 2010, with Atlanta garnering most of the projects. Film and television production injected $1 billion into ’s economy in , with  garnering most of the projects.
215 atlanta Atlanta has gained recognition as a center of production of horror and zombie-related productions, with ‘‘Atlanta’’ magazine dubbing the city the "Zombie Capital of the World". has gained recognition as a center of production of horror and zombie-related productions, with ‘‘’’ magazine dubbing the city the "Zombie Capital of the World".
216 atlanta Compared to its peer cities, Atlanta’s economy has been disproportionately affected by the 2008 financial crisis and the subsequent recession. Compared to its peer cities, ’s economy has been disproportionately affected by the  financial crisis and the subsequent recession.
217 atlanta The city’s economic problems are displayed in its elevated unemployment rate, declining real income levels, and depressed housing market. The city’s economic problems are displayed in its elevated unemployment rate, declining real income levels, and depressed housing market.
218 atlanta From 2010-2011, Atlanta saw a 0.9% contraction in employment and a meager 0.4% rise in income. From ,  saw a 0.9% contraction in employment and a meager 0.4% rise in income.
219 atlanta As of 2012, the unemployment rate in Atlanta was over 9%, higher the national average of 8.2%. As of , the unemployment rate in  was over 9%, higher the national average of 8.2%.
220 atlanta These dismal statistics have garnered Atlanta recognition as one of the world’s worst economic performers, with the city’s economy earning a ranking of 189 among 200 global cities, down from a ranking of 89 during the 1990s, when the city realized 1.6% income growth and 2.6% employment growth. These dismal statistics have garnered  recognition as  of  world’s worst economic performers, with  city’s economy earning a ranking of  among  global cities, down from a ranking of  during  , when  city realized 1.6% income growth and 2.6% employment growth.
221 atlanta However, even when the 2008-2009 period is excluded, the 2001-2007 period is still one of the worst on record for Atlanta: the city never recovered the jobs it lost during the Early 2000s recession, and per capita income declined nearly 5% from 2000 to 2006, the largest decline among major U.S. cities. However, even when   period is excluded,   period is still  of  worst on record for :  city never recovered  jobs it lost during    recession, and per capita income declined nearly 5% from   ,  largest decline among major  cities.
222 atlanta Thus, Atlanta’s current economic crisis was only worsened, and not caused, by the Recession. Thus, ’s  economic crisis was only worsened, and not caused, by the Recession.
223 atlanta Adding to the city’s employment and income woes is the spectacular collapse of its housing market. Adding to the city’s employment and income woes is the spectacular collapse of its housing market.
224 atlanta Atlanta home prices fell by 2.1% in January 2012, reaching levels not seen since 1996, a decline that measured among the worst in the country. home prices fell by 2.1% in  , reaching levels not seen since , a decline that measured among the worst in the country.
225 atlanta Compared with a year earlier, the average home price in Atlanta fell 17.3% in February 2012, the largest annual drop in the history of the index for any city. Compred with  yer erlier, the verge home price in Atlnt fell 17.3% in Februry , the lrgest nnul drop in the history of the index for ny city.
226 atlanta Atlanta home values average $85,000 as of January 2012, second-worst among major metropolitan areas, coming in just behind Detroit. home values average $85,000 as of  , second-worst among major metropolitan areas, coming in just behind .
227 atlanta This unprecedented collapse in home prices has led some economists to deem Atlanta the worst housing market in the country. This unprecedented collapse in home prices has led some economists to deem  the worst housing market in the country.
228 atlanta The city’s lush tree canopy, which filters out pollutants and cools sidewalks and buildings, has increasingly been under assault from man and nature due to heavy rains, drought, aged forests, new pests, and urban construction. The city’s lush tree canopy, which filters out pollutants and cools sidewalks and buildings, has increasingly been under assault from man and nature due to heavy rains, drought, aged forests, new pests, and urban construction.
229 atlanta A 2001 study found that Atlanta’s heavy tree cover declined from 48% in 1974 to 38% in 1996. A  study found that ’s heavy tree cover declined from 48% in  to 38% in .
230 atlanta However, the problem is being addressed by community organizations and city government: Trees Atlanta, a non-profit organization founded in 1985, has planted and distributed over 75,000 shade trees in the city, while Atlanta’s government has awarded $130,000 in grants to neighborhood groups to plant trees. However, the problem is being addressed by community organizations and city government:  , a non-profit organization founded in , has planted and distributed over  shade trees in the city, while ’s government has awarded $130,000 in grants to neighborhood groups to plant trees.
231 atlanta "Atlanta Gas Light Company" ("AGLC"), commonly still known as "Atlanta Gas Light" ("AGL"), is the largest natural gas wholesaler in the Southeast U.S., and is the "AGL" in parent company AGL Resources. " Gas Light Company" ("C"), commonly still known as " Gas Light" (""), is the largest natural gas wholesaler in the  , and is the "" in parent company  .
232 atlanta It was founded in 1856 and is headquartered in Atlanta, as is AGL Resources. It was founded in  and is headquartered in , as is AGL Resources.
233 atlanta It provides distribution to more than 1.6 million residential, commercial, and industrial customers in 243 communities throughout the state of Georgia. It provides distribution to more than   residential, commercial, and industrial customers in  communities throughout the state of .
234 atlanta The Atlanta Sports Council, a division of the Metro Atlanta Chamber, facilitates the growth and development of sports in metro Atlanta by serving as an event recruiter. The   , a division of the   , facilitates the growth and development of sports in metro  by serving as an event recruiter.
235 atlanta The organization plays an important role in improving the quality of life for residents in the region, works to drive economic growth and visibility, and acts as an advocate for the area teams and annual sporting events. The organization plays an important role in improving the quality of life for residents in the region, works to drive economic growth and visibility, and acts as an advocate for the area teams and annual sporting events.
236 atlanta Metro Atlanta primarily uses natural gas for central heating and water heaters, with the major exception of heat pumps in apartments built during and since the 1980s. primarily uses natural gas for central heating and water heaters, with  major exception of heat pumps in apartments built during and since  .
237 atlanta This is because winters are mild, and large apartment buildings usually require little energy to heat. This is because winters are mild, and large apartment buildings usually require little energy to heat.
238 atlanta Backup heat (also used during defrosting) is usually supplied by electric resistance heating, though some homes have hybrid heating units which use gas backup when it is cold. Backup heat (also used during defrosting) is usually supplied by electric resistance heating, though some homes have hybrid heating units which use gas backup when it is cold.
239 atlanta Exurban homes may also use all-electric instead of gas, if gas mains have not been extended to an area. homes may also use all-electric instead of gas, if gas mains have not been extended to an area.
240 atlanta Atlanta Gas Light is the natural gas utility for the region, and has been so for over a century and a half, since it installed gas lamps in Atlanta in 1856. Gs Light is the nturl gs utility for the region, nd hs been so for over   nd  hlf, since it instlled gs lmps in  in .
241 atlanta It operated as a regulated monopoly until November 1998, the after the state legislature voted in early 1997 to deregulate natural gas marketing, and make customers choose among nearly 20 different marketers still selling the same AGL-wholesaled gas. It operated as a regulated monopoly until  , the after the state legislature voted in   to deregulate natural gas marketing, and make customers choose among n  different marketers still selling the same AGL-wholesaled gas.
242 atlanta Most of the gas comes via pipeline from Louisiana. Most of the gas comes via pipeline from .
243 atlanta The low-density residential subdivision development that dominates the metro Atlanta suburbs has historically not been required to replace lost tree inventory. The low-density residential subdivision development that dominates the metro  suburbs has historically not been required to replace lost tree inventory.
244 atlanta Because of larger lot sizes, and natural-looking architecture such as California contemporary, older neighborhoods typically have many mature forest trees, except in cases where they have been destroyed by homeowners. Because of larger lot sizes, and natural-looking architecture such as  contemporary, older neighborhoods typically have many mature forest trees, except in cases where they have been destroyed by homeowners.
245 atlanta Increasing density allowed by zoning since the 1980s has meant fewer and fewer trees left, and by the 2000s it became common for developers to completely clear-cut dozens of acres of forest and bulldoze all hills flat to build generic tract housing, often with tightly packed homes nearly touching each other and up against the street. Increasing density allowed by zoning since   has meant fewer and fewer trees left, and by   it became common for developers to completely clear-cut dozens of acres of forest and bulldoze all hills flat to build generic tract housing, often with tightly packed homes nearly touching each or and up against  street.
246 atlanta However, over the past decade some area cities and counties have revised their tree ordinances to require tree recompense to be equal to or greater than the pre-development tree density, trying to ensure a future tree canopy. However, over    some area cities and counties have revised ir tree ordinances to require tree recompense to be equal to or greater than  pre-development tree density, trying to ensure a  tree canopy.
247 atlanta Rather than leaving trees on each home lot as before, this typically involves a set-aside of green space in each development, with most other areas still clear-cut. Rather than leaving trees on each home lot as before, this typically involves a set-aside of green space in each development, with most other areas still clear-cut.
248 atlanta Even when some trees are replaced, it is with a single type of trees planted the same distance from each other, rather than different trees at random placement and age as in the native forest. Even when some trees are replaced, it is with a single type of trees planted the same distance from each other, rather than different trees at random placement and age as in the native forest.
249 atlanta White Americans made up 55.4% of metro Atlanta's population, a relative decrease from 63.0% ten years earlier, but still an absolute increase of over 330,000 people. White  made up 55.4% of metro 's population, a relative decrease from 63.0%   , but still an absolute increase of over  people.
250 atlanta Non-Hispanic whites dropped from 59.5% to 50.7% of the metro's population, increasing by about 224,000 people. whites dropped from 59.5% to 50.7% of the metro's population, increasing by about  people.
251 atlanta Hispanic Americans are the fastest growing ethnic group. are the fastest growing ethnic group.
252 atlanta At 10.4% of the metro's population in 2010, versus only 6.5% in 2000, the metro's Hispanic population increased an astounding 103.6%, or 278,459 people, in ten years. At 10.4% of the metro's population in , versus only 6.5% in , the metro's  population increased an astounding 103.6%, or  people, in  .
253 atlanta Major Hispanic groups include 314,351 Mexicans, 43,337 Puerto Ricans and 17,648 Cubans. groups include  ,    and  .
254 atlanta All of those groups' populations increased by over 90% in the ten-year period. All of those groups' populations increased by over 90% in the  period.
255 atlanta Of the metro's 279,000-person increase in the Hispanic population from 2000 to 2010, 98,000 came in Gwinnett County, 37,000 in Cobb, 25,000 in Fulton (all but 3,000 outside the city of Atlanta), 20,000 in Hall, and 15,000 in DeKalb County. Of the metro's 279,000-person increase in the  population from   ,  came in  ,  in ,  in Fuln (all but  outside the city of ),  in Hall, and  in  .
256 atlanta Metro Atlanta is increasingly international, with its 716,434 foreign-born residents in 2010, a 69% increase versus 2000. is increasingly international, with its  foreign-born residents in , a 69% increase versus .
257 atlanta This was the fourth largest rate of growth among the nation's top 100 metros, after Baltimore, Orlando and Las Vegas. This was the  largest rate of growth among the nation's top  metros, after ,  and  .
258 atlanta The foreign-born proportion of the population went up from 10.3% to 13.6%, and Atlanta moved up from 14th to 12th in ranking of U.S. metro areas with the largest immigrant population by sheer numbers. The foreign-born proportion of the population went up from 10.3%  13.6%, and  moved up from    in ranking of  metro areas with the largest immigrant population by sheer numbers.
259 atlanta Still, its 13.6% proportion of immigrants is only the 29th highest of the nation's top 100 metros. Still, its 13.6% proportion of immigrants is only the  highest of the nation's top  metros.
260 atlanta In 1990 Greater Atlanta had the largest Japanese population in the Southeast United States. In  Greater  had the largest  population in the   .
261 atlanta The Consulate General of Japan in Atlanta estimated that, during that year, 3,500 to 4,000 Japanese lived in Greater Atlanta. The Consulate General of  in  estimated that, during that ,  to  ese lived in  .
262 atlanta Of the metropolitan areas in the Southeast United States, as of 1990 Greater Atlanta had the most extensive education network for Japanese nationals. Of the metropolitan areas in the   , as of  Greater  had the most extensive education network for  nationals.
263 atlanta The Atlanta metro area has a humid subtropical climate with four seasons, although summer is the longest. The  metro area has a humid subtropical climate with  seasons, although  is the longest.
264 atlanta January daily lows average from  north to south, and highs range from , but often reach well above or below this average. daily lows average from  north to south, and highs range from , but often reach well above or below this average.
265 atlanta There is an average annual snowfall of about , falling mostly from December through March, though there was snow north of the city on April 3, 1987. There is an average annual snowfall of about  falling mostly from  through  though there was snow north of the city on   .
266 atlanta Snow flurries are actually common during the winter months when there is an especially deep trough in the jet stream. Snow flurries are actually common during the   when there is an especially deep trough in the jet stream.
267 atlanta These events usually do not amount to more than a slight dusting and therefore go unrecognized in most weather summaries. These events usually do not amount to more than a slight dusting and therefore go unrecognized in most weather summaries.
268 atlanta Summers, by contrast, are long and consistently hot and humid, with July mornings averaging  and afternoons averaging , slight breezes, and typically a 20–40% chance of afternoon thunderstorms. Summers, by contrast, are long and consistently hot and humid, with  mornings averaging  and afternoons averaging , slight breezes, and typically a –40% chance of afternoon thunderstorms.
269 atlanta During the summer afternoon thunderstorms, temperatures may suddenly drop to 70-77 degrees with locally heavy rainfall. During the  afternoon thunderstorms, temperatures may suddenly drop to  degrees with locally heavy rainfall.
270 atlanta Average annual rainfall is about , with late winter and early spring (as well as July) being the wettest and fall (especially October) being the driest. Average annual rain is about , with   and   (as well as ) being the wettest and  (especially ) being the driest.
271 atlanta From 1878 to 2011, the highest recorded temperatures at Atlanta were  on three days in the extraordinarily hot July 1980, followed by  that month and in August 2007, the hottest month ever for the area. From  to , the highest recorded temperatures at  were  on   in the extraordinarily hot  , followed by  that  and in  , the hottest  ever for the area.
272 atlanta This was broken on the last day of June 2012, when the temperature reached , during a massive heat wave that hit most of the country, with another 105 the next day tying the July record. This was broken on      , when  temperature reached , during a massive heat wave that hit most   country, with anor     tying   record.
273 atlanta The lowest recorded temperatures were  and  on January 20 and 21 of 1985, and  on February 13, 1899, during severe cold snaps that went so far south they devastated the entire citrus industry in central Florida. The lowest recorded temperatures were  and  on   and  of  and  on    during severe cold snaps that went so far south they devastated the entire citrus industry in central .
274 atlanta Hurricane Opal brought sustained tropical storm conditions to the area one night in early October 1995, uprooting hundreds of trees and causing widespread power outages, after soaking the area with rain for two days prior. Hurricane Opal brought sustained tropical storm conditions to the area  night in early  , uprooting hundreds of trees and causing widespread power outages, after soaking the area with rain for   prior.
275 atlanta Since 1950 some metro counties have been hit more than 20 times by tornadoes, with Cobb (26) and Fulton (22) being two of the highest in the state. Since  some metro counties have been hit more than  times by tornadoes, with  () and  () being  of the highest in the state.
276 atlanta The Dunwoody tornado in early April 1998 was the worst tornado to have struck the area. The  tornado in    was the worst tornado to have struck the area.
277 atlanta A tornado struck downtown Atlanta in March 2008, causing a half-billion dollars in damage, one of the most expensive storms ever recorded anywhere. A tornado struck downtown  in  , causing a half-billion dollars in damage,  of the most expensive storms ever recorded anywhere.
278 atlanta The area experiences a winter storm with significant snowfall about once each year, however this can be extremely irregular. The area experiences a  storm with significant snowfall about  each year, however this can be extremely irregular.
279 atlanta A blizzard (see: 1993 Storm of the Century) caught much of the Southeast off-guard in 1993, dumping  at the Atlanta airport on March 13, and much more than that in the suburbs to the north and west, as well as in the mountains. A blizzard (see:  Storm of  ) caught much of  Souast off-guard in , dumping  at   airport on  , and much more than that in  suburbs to  north and west, as well as in  mountains.
280 atlanta The only other recorded winter storm of comparable severity was the Great Blizzard of 1899. The only other recorded  storm of comparable severity was the Great Blizzard of .
281 atlanta The heaviest snow, however, was in January 1940, when  buried the city during its coldest month on record. The heaviest snow, however, was in  , when  buried the city during its coldest  on record.
282 atlanta The second-heaviest was in 1983, when a very late storm dumped  on March 24. The second-heaviest was in , when a very late storm dumped  on  .
283 atlanta Ice storms have also occurred in the area. Ice storms have also occurred in the area.
284 atlanta The well-remembered 1973 ice storm was brutal as was the storm in 1982. The well-remembered  ice storm was brutal as was the storm in .
285 atlanta The Southeastern U.S. drought of 2006–2008 began with dry weather in 2006, and left area lakes very low. The Southeastern  drought of – began with dry weather in , and left area lakes very low.
286 atlanta The drought finally began to abate significantly after the 2009 Atlanta floods, when some areas got up to  of rain in a week, with half of that falling in just 24 hours near the end of the period. The drought finlly begn to bte significntly fter the   floods, when some res got up to  of rin in  , with hlf of tht flling in just   ner the end of the period.
287 atlanta The USGS calculated it to be a greater-than-500-year flood. The  calculated it to be a  flood.
288 atlanta Disputes over water are becoming increasingly common, with both Alabama and Florida filing lawsuits and threatening injunctions to prevent Georgia from taking too much water, mostly for metro Atlanta. Disputes over water are becoming increasingly common, with both  and  filing lawsuits and threatening injunctions to prevent  from taking too much water, mostly for metro .
289 atlanta South Carolina also threatened when a pipeline east to the Savannah River was mentioned even informally. also threatened when a pipeline east to the   was mentioned even informally.
290 atlanta The state has now been ordered by a judge to reduce withdrawals from the Chattahoochee south of Lanier to 1970s levels within three years (2012), something that would create an immediate emergency water shortage if it were actually enforced. The state has  been ordered by a judge to reduce withdrawals from the  south of  to  levels within   (), something that would create an immediate emergency water shortage if it were actually enforced.
291 atlanta This was done because it was ruled the U.S. Congress never authorized the use of the lake as a water supply. This was done because it was ruled the   never authorized the use of the lake as a water supply.
292 atlanta The city's lush tree canopy, which filters out pollutants and cools sidewalks and buildings, has increasingly been under assault from man and nature due to heavy rains, drought, aged forests, new pests, and urban construction. The city's lush tree canopy, which filters out pollutants and cools sidewalks and buildings, has increasingly been under assault from man and nature due to heavy rains, drought, aged forests, new pests, and urban construction.
293 atlanta A 2001 study found that Atlanta's heavy tree cover declined from 48% in 1974 to 38% in 1996. A  study found that 's heavy tree cover declined from 48% in  to 38% in .
294 atlanta This loss of tree canopy resulted in a 33% increase in stormwater runoff and a loss of 11 million pounds of pollutants removed annually, a value of approximately $28 million per year. This loss of tree canopy resulted in a 33% increase in stormwater runoff and a loss of 11 million pounds of pollutants removed annually, a value of approximately $28 million per .
295 atlanta Due to a historic drought in the late 2000s, Atlanta lost trees at an unprecedented rate. Due to a historic drought in the  ,  lost trees at an unprecedented rate.
296 atlanta For example, Piedmont Park lost about a dozen large, historic trees in 2009, compared to two or three during normal years. For example,   lost about a  large, historic trees in , compared to  or  during normal .
297 atlanta Although many of Atlanta's trees are between 80–100 years old and thus reaching the end of their normal lifespan, the drought accelerated their demise by shrinking the trees' roots. Although many of 's trees are between –   and thus reaching the end of their normal lifespan, the drought accelerated their demise by shrinking the trees' roots.
298 atlanta However, the problem is being addressed by community organizations and city government. However, the problem is being addressed by community organizations and city government.
299 atlanta Trees Atlanta, a non-profit organization founded in 1985, has planted and distributed over 75,000 shade trees. Trees , a non-profit organization founded in , has planted and distributed over  shade trees.
300 atlanta Atlanta's city government awarded $130,000 in grants to neighborhood groups to plant trees. 's city government awarded $130,000 in grants to neighborhood groups to plant trees.
301 atlanta Atlanta has a reputation as the "city in a forest" due to its abundance of trees, unique among major cities. has a reputation as the "city in a forest" due to its abundance of trees, unique among major cities.
302 atlanta The city's main street is named after a tree, and beyond the Downtown, Midtown, and Buckhead business districts, the skyline gives way to a dense canopy of woods that spreads into the suburbs. The city's main street is named after a tree, and beyond the , Midtown, and  business districts, the skyline gives way to a dense canopy of woods that spreads into the suburbs.
303 atlanta The nickname is factually accurate, as the city's tree coverage percentage is at 36%, the highest out of all major American cities, and above the national average of 27%. The nickname is factually accurate, as the city's tree coverage percentage is at 36%, the highest out of all major  cities, and above the national average of 27%.
304 atlanta Atlanta's tree coverage does not go unnoticed—it was the main reason cited by "National Geographic" in naming Atlanta a "Place of a Lifetime":"For a sprawling city with the nation’s ninth-largest metro area, Atlanta is surprisingly lush with trees—magnolias, dogwoods, Southern pines, and magnificent oaks." 's tree coverage does not go unnoticed—it was the main reason cited by "National Geographic" in naming  a "Place of a Lifetime":"For a sprawling city with the nation’s ninth-largest metro area,  is surprisingly lush with trees—magnolias, dogwoods,  pines, and magnificent oaks."
305 atlanta The low-density residential subdivision development that dominates the Atlanta area has historically not been required to replace lost tree inventory. The low-density residential subdivision development that dominates the  area has historically not been required to replace lost tree inventory.
306 atlanta Because of larger lot sizes and natural-looking architecture, such as California contemporary, older neighborhoods typically have many mature forest trees, except in cases where they have been destroyed by homeowners. Because of larger lot sizes and natural-looking architecture, such as  contemporary, older neighborhoods typically have many mature forest trees, except in cases where they have been destroyed by homeowners.
307 atlanta Increasing density allowed by zoning since the 1980s has meant fewer and fewer trees left, and by the 2000s it became common for developers to completely clearcut dozens of acres of forest and bulldoze all hills flat to build generic tract housing, often with tightly packed homes nearly touching each other and up against the street. Increasing density allowed by zoning since   has meant fewer and fewer trees left, and by   it became common for developers to completely clearcut dozens of acres of forest and bulldoze all hills flat to build generic tract housing, often with tightly packed homes nearly touching each or and up against  street.
308 atlanta However, over the past decade some area cities and counties have revised their tree ordinances to require tree recompense to be equal to or greater than the pre-development tree density, trying to ensure a future tree canopy. However, over    some area cities and counties have revised ir tree ordinances to require tree recompense to be equal to or greater than  pre-development tree density, trying to ensure a  tree canopy.
309 atlanta Rather than leaving trees on each home lot as before, this typically involves a set-aside of green space in each development, with most other areas still clear-cut. Rather than leaving trees on each home lot as before, this typically involves a set-aside of green space in each development, with most other areas still clear-cut.
310 atlanta Even when some trees are replaced, it is with a single type of trees planted the same distance from each other, rather than different trees at random placement and age as in the native forest. Even when some trees are replaced, it is with a single type of trees planted the same distance from each other, rather than different trees at random placement and age as in the native forest.
311 atlanta At a rate of 50 acres (20 hectares) per day, the deforestation brought by land development has had a significant impact on area watersheds, as they now flood far more rapidly and to a much greater extent than prior to development. At a rate of  acres ( hectares) per , the deforestation brought by land development has had a significant impact on area watersheds, as they  flood far more rapidly and to a much greater extent than prior to development.
312 atlanta The City of Atlanta also owns  of land located southwest of Dawsonville, Georgia, which was purchased in 1972 from Lockheed, and was the previous site of the Georgia Nuclear Aircraft Laboratory (GNAL). The City of  also owns  of land located southwest of , , which was purchased in  from , and was the previous site of the  Nuclear Aircraft Laboratory (GNAL).
313 atlanta The property is currently referred to as the Dawson Forest City of Atlanta Tract, and managed by the Georgia Forestry Commission with a trail system open to the public. The property is  referred to as the      , and managed by the  ry  with a trail system open to the public.
314 atlanta The tract is located approximately ten miles from the end of limited access on Georgia 400 north of Cumming, Georgia. The tract is located approximately  miles from the end of limited access on   north of Cumming, .
315 atlanta An area of  previously occupied by GNAL was restricted following 1978 testing which found residual nuclear radiation from the experiments performed there. An area of   occupied by  was restricted following  testing which found residual nuclear radiation from the experiments performed there.
316 atlanta Subsequent studies in 1991 and 1997 found radiation levels to be at or slightly above normal background levels. Subsequent studies in  and  found radiation levels to be at or slightly above normal background levels.
317 atlanta The property also encompasses Amicalola Creek, which various groups are lobbying to be designated as a scenic river. The property also encompasses  , which various groups are lobbying to be designated as a scenic river.
318 atlanta The forest has also been proposed for use as a major reservoir for the city of Atlanta water system. The forest has also been proposed for use as a major reservoir for the city of  water system.
319 atlanta On November 29, 2010 Atlanta was hit by an EF4 tornado. On     was hit by an EF4 tornado.
320 atlanta The tornado completely destroyed a mansion and caused severe damage to several other homes. The tornado completely destroyed a mansion and caused severe damage to several other homes.
321 atlanta This was the second EF4 tornado to strike Louisiana in 2010. This was the  EF4 tornado to strike  in .
322 atlanta The Atlanta tornado was the 13th EF4 tornado of the year in the United States, the most since 1999. The  tornado was   EF4 tornado of   in   ,  most since .
323 atlanta In recent decades, Atolinga's population has decreased due to emigration. In  , 's population has decreased due to emigration.
324 atlanta Migrants from Atolinga can be found throughout the United States, especially in Chicago, Atlanta, and the San Gabriel Valley region of California. Migrants from  can be found throughout the  , especially in , , and the    region of .
325 atlanta Journalist Sam Quinones has written about such migrants in his book "Antonio's Gun and Delfino's Dream: True Tales of Mexican Migration". Journalist   has written about such migrants in his book "Antonio's Gun and 's Dream: True Tales of Mexican Migration".
326 atlanta Snowfall is not nearly as common as in Atlanta, due largely to Augusta's elevation, with downtown Augusta being about 900 feet lower than downtown Atlanta. Snowfall is not nearly as common as in , due largely to 's elevation, with downtown  being about  feet lower than downtown .
327 atlanta Still, snow flurries are typically seen annually. Still, snow flurries are typically seen annually.
328 atlanta Freezing rain is also a threat in wintertime. Freezing rain is also a threat in wintertime.
329 atlanta Bahamians began visiting the Florida Keys in the 18th century to salvage wrecked ships, fish, catch turtles and log tropical hardwood trees. began visiting    in    to salvage wrecked ships, fish, catch turtles and log tropical hardwood trees.
330 atlanta A Bahamian settlement in the Keys was reported in 1790, but the presence of Bahamians in the keys was temporary. A  settlement in the Keys was reported in , but the presence of s in the keys was temporary.
331 atlanta Early in the 19th century some 30 to 40 Bahamian ships were working in the keys every year. Early in    some  to   ships were working in  keys every year.
332 atlanta After 1825, Bahamian wreckers began moving to Key West in large numbers. After ,  wreckers began moving to   in large numbers.
333 atlanta Today, the largest Bahamian American populations are in Atlanta, Oklahoma City, Miami, and New York. , the largest   populations are in ,  , , and  .
334 atlanta With the reverse movement of the New Great Migration, the South has been the gaining region for black migrants coming from all three other census regions, especially from 1995-2000. With the reverse movement of the   , the  has been the gaining region for black migrants coming from all  other census regions, especially from .
335 atlanta The chief gaining states have been Georgia, North Carolina, Florida, Maryland, Virginia and Tennessee. The chief gaining states have been ,  , , ,  and .
336 atlanta In the same period, Georgia, Texas and Maryland attracted the most black college graduates. In the same period, ,  and  attracted the most black college graduates.
337 atlanta Houston and Dallas center cities have lost black population as the middle class has moved to the suburbs. and  center cities have lost black population as the middle class has moved to the suburbs.
338 atlanta In a change from previous settlement patterns, new regional migrants settle directly in the suburbs, the areas of largest residential growth and often the location of jobs as well. In a change from previous settlement patterns, new regional migrants settle directly in the suburbs, the areas of largest residential growth and often the location of jobs as well.
339 atlanta In addition to Atlanta, the top metropolitan areas attracting African Americans include Orlando, Tampa and Miami, Florida; and Charlotte, North Carolina. In addition to , the top metropolitan areas attracting   include ,  and , ; and ,  .
340 atlanta Early years of residential change accelerated in the late 1960s after passage of civil rights legislation ended segregation, and African Americans could exercise more choices in housing and jobs. of residential change accelerated in the   after passage of civil rights legislation ended segregation, and   could exercise more choices in housing and jobs.
341 atlanta Since the 1950s, there began a period of major restructuring of industries and loss of hundreds of thousands of industrial jobs in northeast and Midwest cities. Since  , re began a period of major restructuring of industries and loss of hundreds of thousands of industrial jobs in norast and  cities.
342 atlanta Since the late 20th century, these events led to reduced density in formerly black neighborhoods in cities such as Chicago, Detroit, and Philadelphia, which have also had absolute population decreases, losing white population as well. Since    , se events led to reduced density in formerly black neighborhoods in cities such as , , and , which have also had absolute population decreases, losing white population as well.
343 atlanta Since the 2000 census, the number and proportion of black population has decreased in several major cities, including New York, Los Angeles, Atlanta, Boston, San Francisco, and Washington, DC. Since the  census, the number and proportion of black population has decreased in several major cities, including  ,  , , ,  , and , .
344 atlanta The official United States Census category of Hispanic or Latino is limited explicitly to people of "Spanish culture or origin", and therefore does not include Brazilian Americans. The official   Census category of Hispanic or Latino is limited explicitly to people of " culture or origin", and therefore does not include  .
345 atlanta The first recorded Brazilians to emigrate to the United States came in the 1960s. The  recorded  to emigrate to    came in  .
346 atlanta Before then, Brazilians were included in a group formed by all South American groups and were not counted separately. Before then,  were included in a group formed by all   groups and were not counted separately.
347 atlanta Of the 234,761 people of South America that arrived to United States between 1820 and 1960, at least, some of them were Brazilian, already in 1960 the U.S. Census Bureau report counted  27,885 Americans of Brazilian ancestry. Of the  people of   that arrived to   between   , at least, some of them were , already in  the    report counted   ns of  ancestry.
348 atlanta From 1960 until the mid-1980s between 1,500 and 2,300 Brazilian immigrants arrived in the United States each year. From  until   between     immigrants arrived in    each year.
349 atlanta Since the mid-1980s poverty in Brazil quickly increased, as a result between 1986 and 1990 1.4 million Brazilians emigrated to the United States, as well as Japan, and Europe. Since   poverty in  quickly increased, as a result between      ians emigrated to   , as well as ,  .
350 atlanta It was not until the 80's when Brazilian emigration reached significant levels. It was not until the 's when  emigration reached significant levels.
351 atlanta Thus, between 1987 and 1991, an estimated 20,800 Brazilians arrived in United States. Thus, between   , an estimated   arrived in  .
352 atlanta A significant number of them - 8.133 Brazilians - arrived in 1991. A significant number of them -   - arrived in .
353 atlanta The 1990 U.S. Census Bureau recorded  that there are about 60,000 Brazilians living in the United States. The     recorded  that there are about   living in the  .
354 atlanta However, other sources indicate that there are near 100,000 Brazilians living in the New York area alone in addition to sizable Brazilian communities in Atlanta, Boston, Washington, D.C., Los Angeles, Miami, and Phoenix. However, other sources indicate that there are near   living in the   area alone in addition to sizable  communities in , , , ,  , , and .
355 atlanta The 2000 census counted 38,579 people, 15,886 households, and 7,402 families residing in the North Atlanta CDP. The  census counted  people,  households, and  families residing in the   CDP.
356 atlanta The population density was 5,040.6 people per square mile (1,947.1/km²). The population density was  people per square mile (/km²).
357 atlanta There were 16,636 housing units at an average density of 2,173.6/sq There were  housing units at an average density of /sq
358 atlanta mi (839.6/km²). mi (/km²).
359 atlanta The racial makeup of the CDP was 61.52% White, 17.56% African American, 0.41% Native American, 4.88% Asian, 0.05% Pacific Islander, 12.64% from other races, and 2.94% from two or more races. The racial makeup of the CDP was 61.52% White, 17.56%  , 0.41% Native , 4.88% , 0.05% Pacific Islander, 12.64% from other races, and 2.94% from  or more races.
360 atlanta Hispanic or Latino of any race were 27.41% of the population. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 27.41% of the population.
361 atlanta By the 1900s Brooks began to grow due to the rail road. By    began to grow due to  rail road.
362 atlanta According to Daniel Langford Jr. several stores were built including a bank, a drugstore, cotton gins, grist mills, blacksmith shops, and several other stores were built. According to    several stores were built including a bank, a drugstore, cotton gins, grist mills, blacksmith shops, and several other stores were built.
363 atlanta Although businesses were on the rise in the small town, the main source of economy for the town was farming. Although businesses were on the rise in the small town, the main source of economy for the town was farming.
364 atlanta Cotton was the number one crop for a long time until 1921 when the boll weevil appeared quickly destroying crops and placing the town in to an economic depression which also caused the town to lose its charter. Cotton was the number  crop for a long time until  when the boll weevil appeared quickly destroying crops and placing the town in to an economic depression which also caused the town to lose its charter.
365 atlanta By the time the country hit the Great Depression, Brooks had been suffering alone for eight long years. By the time the country hit the Great Depression,  had been suffering alone for  long .
366 atlanta Brooks began to come out of the depression in 1939 after electricity was installed in the town. began to come out of the depression in  after electricity was installed in the town.
367 atlanta Around this time Brooks received its town charter again. Around this time  received its town charter again.
368 atlanta Another factor in the growth of the town was due to the rise in airline industry. Another factor in the growth of the town was due to the rise in airline industry.
369 atlanta Airline employees from Atlanta began to buy large tracks of farmland. Airline employees from  began to buy large tracks of farmland.
370 atlanta Farming also changed as it moved away from the cotton industry changing to the cattle industry. Farming also changed as it moved away from the cotton industry changing to the cattle industry.
371 atlanta Today Brooks is still considered to be rural but, agriculture is no longer the main source of economy. is still considered to be rural but, agriculture is no longer the main source of economy.
372 atlanta Much of Brooks is being divided into small  to  lots ready for the construction of a generally nice homes. Much of  is being divided into small  to  lots ready for the construction of a generally nice homes.
373 atlanta Brooks is now a residential area that many people are moving to since it is still considered to be rural. is  a residential area that many people are moving to since it is still considered to be rural.
374 atlanta People are trying to get out of the fast pace city and moving to close rural areas such as Brooks. People are trying to get out of the fast pace city and moving to close rural areas such as .
375 atlanta Besides construction, much of the economy of the citizens of Brooks come from the city in which the people drive to work in metro areas such as Fayetteville or even in Atlanta. Besides construction, much of the economy of the citizens of  come from the city in which the people drive to work in metro areas such as  or even in .
376 atlanta Brooks now has some stores in town that also contribute to the economy such as a women’s hair salon and tanning shop, a barber shop, deer processor, storage center, and several convenient stores. has some stores in town that also contribute to the economy such as a women’s hair salon and tanning shop, a barber shop, deer processor, storage center, and several convenient stores.
377 atlanta Buford Highway is a linear community made up of multi-ethnic suburban neighborhoods and shopping centers. is a linear community made up of multi-ethnic suburban neighborhoods and shopping centers.
378 atlanta Similar to other sun belt cities, immigrants who relocated to Atlanta in the 20th and 21st centuries went straight to the suburbs, where residential and commercial real estate was affordable and where many second-generation immigrant communities were already established. Similar to other sun belt cities, immigrants who relocated to  in the     went straight to the suburbs, where residential  commercial real estate was affordable  where many second-generation immigrant communities were already established.
379 atlanta Along Buford Highway, there are few wholly distinct ethnic areas. Along Buford Highway, there are few wholly distinct ethnic areas.
380 atlanta The more than 1,000 immigrant-owned businesses are owned by and patronized by a wide variety of ethnic groups, notably Korean, Mexican, Chinese and Vietnamese, and also Indian/South Asian, Central American and Ethiopian. The more than  immigrant-owned businesses are owned by and patronized by a wide variety of ethnic groups, notably , ,  and , and also  ,   and .
381 atlanta The DeKalb County Chamber of Commerce calls the area the "International Corridor." The      calls the area the "International Corridor."
382 atlanta Buford Highway originated as a non-descript state roadway connecting Atlanta and points northeast, including the then-railroad towns of Chamblee and Doraville, as well as points farther north. Buford Highway originated as a non-descript state roadway connecting  and points northeast, including the then-railroad towns of  and , as well as points farther north.
383 atlanta The towns of Doraville, Chamblee and Norcross had long been home to a blue collar, largely white, lower middle-class population. The towns of ,  and  had long been home to a blue collar, largely white, lower middle-class population.
384 atlanta The highway was characterized by strip mall development, and apartment complexes sprouted up in the 1960s and 1970s. The highway was characterized by strip mall development, and apartment complexes sprouted up in   and .
385 atlanta In 1976 the first ethnic restaurant opened, the Havana Sandwich Shop. In  the  ethnic restaurant opened, the  Sandwich Shop.
386 atlanta In the 1980s, immigrants settled in the area due to affordable housing, available public transportation, and proximity to construction jobs in growing Gwinnett County. In  , immigrants settled in  area due to affordable housing, available public transportation, and proximity to construction jobs in growing  .
387 atlanta The area attracted many Latino workers during the construction boom that preceded the 1996 Olympic Games. The area attracted many  workers during the construction boom that preceded the   .
388 atlanta Asian business owners were attracted to the stretch of highway by cheap leases and reliable traffic flow. business owners were attracted to the stretch of highway by cheap leases and reliable traffic flow.
389 atlanta "Bull Sluice Lake" is a small reservoir located along the Chattahoochee River in northern Georgia, in the northern suburbs of metro Atlanta. "Bull Sluice Lake" is a small reservoir located along the   in northern , in the northern suburbs of metro .
390 atlanta It is , and is impounded by Morgan Falls Dam. It is , and is impounded by   .
391 atlanta Besides the hydroelectric power produced by the dam, the lake's primary use is recreation, including fishing and rowing. Besides the hydroelectric power produced by the dam, the lake's primary use is recreation, including fishing and rowing.
392 atlanta It also now helps to buffer releases by Buford Dam, from the much larger (by 500 times) Lake Lanier,  upstream. It also  helps to buffer releases by  , from the much larger (by  times)  ,  upstream.
393 atlanta Bull Sluice Lake is created by Morgan Falls Dam, a small hydroelectric dam located along the Chattahoochee River at the northern end of Sandy Springs, Georgia, in north metro Atlanta, located in East Cobb County. is created by   , a small hydroelectric dam located along the   at the northern end of  , , in north metro , located in   .
394 atlanta Originally constructed in 1904 by Georgia Power to provide electricity for Atlanta's streetcars, it now provides enough power for about 4400 homes. Originally constructed in  by   to provide electricity for 's streetcars, it  provides enough power for about  homes.
395 atlanta It was named for then recently deceased Georgia Power president S. Morgan Smith's mother whose maiden name was Morgan. It was named for then  deceased   president   's mother whose maiden name was .
396 atlanta At the time it was by far the largest hydroelectric plant in the state. At the time it was by far the largest hydroelectric plant in the state.
397 atlanta In 1924 it was rebuilt as a 60 cycle plant with 15,000 kilowatts (up from the original 10,500kW). In  it was rebuilt as a  cycle plant with  kilowatts (up from the original kW).
398 atlanta In 1957 it was raised to regulate the flow from Buford Dam in order to give Atlanta water during the hours it was needed most. In  it was raised to regulate  flow from   in order to give  water during   it was needed most.
399 atlanta It is 896 feet or 314 meters long, and 56 feet or 17 meters tall. It is  feet or  meters long, and  feet or  meters tall.
400 atlanta The dam's current license from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) was issued in March 1959, and expires in February 2009. The dam's  license from the     () was issued in  , and expires in  .
401 atlanta Georgia Power has begun the required impact studies for re-licensing of the dam, which will be for 30 or 50 years. has begun the required impact studies for re-licensing of the dam, which will be for  or  .
402 atlanta During a weather incident during a July 2006 game vs the Atlanta Braves, portable concession stands were knocked over, the infield rain tarp was damaged, and plastic sheets used to protect the press box were dislodged. During a weather incident during a   game vs the  , portable concession stands were knocked over, the infield rain tarp was damaged, and plastic sheets used to protect the press box were dislodged.
403 atlanta As a result of the storm at least thirty spectators were injured, of whom five were taken to the hospital. As a result of the storm at least  spectators were injured, of whom  were taken to the hospital.
404 atlanta After the storm happened, the stadium designated shelter areas for such disasters which are located throughout the ballpark. After the storm happened, the stadium designated shelter areas for such disasters which are located throughout the ballpark.
405 atlanta Despite greatly relaxed lending standards and low interest rates, many regions of the country saw very little growth during the "bubble period". Despite greatly relaxed lending standards and low interest rates, many regions of the country saw very little growth during the "bubble period".
406 atlanta Out of 20 largest metropolitan areas tracked by the S&P/Case-Shiller house price index, six (Dallas, Cleveland, Detroit, Denver, Atlanta, and Charlotte) saw less than 10% price growth in inflation-adjusted terms in 2001–2006. Out of  largest metropolitan areas tracked by the /Case-Shiller house price index,  (, , , , , and ) saw less than 10% price growth in inflation-adjusted terms in 01–06.
407 atlanta During the same period, seven metropolitan areas (Tampa, Miami, San Diego, Los Angeles, Las Vegas, Phoenix, and Washington DC) appreciated by more than 80%. During the same period,  metropolitan areas (, ,  ,  ,  , , and  ) appreciated by more than 80%.
408 atlanta Somewhat paradoxically, as the housing bubble deflates some metropolitan areas (such as Denver and Atlanta) have been experiencing high foreclosure rates, even though they did not see much house appreciation in the first place and therefore did not appear to be contributing to the national bubble. Somewhat paradoxically, as the housing bubble deflates some metropolitan areas (such as  and ) have been experiencing high foreclosure rates, even though they did not see much house appreciation in the  place and therefore did not appear to be contributing to the national bubble.
409 atlanta This was also true of some cities in the Rust Belt such as Detroit and Cleveland, where weak local economies had produced little house price appreciation early in the decade but still saw declining values and increased foreclosures in 2007. This was also true of some cities in  Rust Belt such as  and , where weak local economies had produced little house price appreciation early in   but still saw declining values and increased foreclosures in .
410 atlanta As of January 2009 California, Michigan, Ohio and Florida were the states with the highest foreclosure rates. As of   , ,  and  were the states with the highest foreclosure rates.
411 atlanta As three states have needs related to the river, there has been increasing controversy since the late twentieth century related to competing development among the regions and the implications for the river. As  states have needs red to  river, re has been increasing controversy since     red to competing development among  regions and  implications for  river.
412 atlanta The enormous growth of metropolitan Atlanta has increased its water withdrawals from the river. The enormous growth of metropolitan  has increased its water withdrawals from the river.
413 atlanta This has effects downstream. This has effects downstream.
414 atlanta For example, the oysters in the Apalachicola Bay, Florida, depend on the brackish water mixture of river and ocean water, and the alternating freshwater and saltwater flows that the river and the tides provide. For example, the oysters in the  , , depend on the brackish water mixture of river and ocean water, and the alternating freshwater and saltwater flows that the river and the tides provide.
415 atlanta The amount of flow in the Chattahoochee has also been decreased by interbasin water transfers, where water is withdrawn from the Chattahoochee, but discharged as treated sewage water into another river, such as the Oconee River, which flows to the Atlantic Seaboard. The amount of flow in the  has also been decreased by interbasin water transfers, where water is withdrawn from the , but discharged as treated sewage water into another river, such as the  , which flows to the  .
416 atlanta The second most recent major flood along the river occurred during the 2009 Georgia floods, with  of water recorded at Vinings at the northwestern Atlanta city limit. The  most recent major flood along the river occurred during the   floods, with  of water recorded at  at the northwestern  city limit.
417 atlanta The flood was over  higher than the previous flood recorded in September 2004, as a result of Hurricane Fred. The flood was over  higher than the previous flood recorded in  , as a result of Hurricane Fred.
418 atlanta Numerous tributaries also swelled far over and beyond their banks. Numerous tributaries also swelled far over and beyond their banks.
419 atlanta These were the highest water levels seen since 1990, and the second-highest ever since the large Buford Dam was built upstream. These were the highest water levels seen since , and the second-highest ever since the large   was built upstream.
420 atlanta The National Weather Service in Peachtree City estimated that this was a 500-year flood event. The    in   estimated that this was a  flood event.
421 atlanta During the historic September 2009 Atlanta floods, Clarkdale Elementary School (part of Cobb County Public Schools) was ruined by Noses Creek in the hours after students and faculty evacuated. During  historic    floods,    (part of   Public s) was ruined by   in   after students and faculty evacuated.
422 atlanta Although outside the 100-year flood plain, massive rainfall and upstream land development caused the stream to swell to more than ten times its normal height, also flooding other locations in Clarkdale. Although outside the  flood plain, massive rainfall and upstream land development caused the stream to swell to more than  times its normal height, also flooding other locations in .
423 atlanta The new Clarkdale Elementary School opened at a different location in August 2012. The new    opened at a different location in  .
424 atlanta Southern and southeast areas of the state experience snow much less frequently than other parts of Georgia. and southeast areas of the state experience snow much less frequently than other parts of .
425 atlanta The Georgia Piedmont, sometimes referred to as the Blue Ridge province, is somewhat cooler in winter than the coastal areas. The  , sometimes referred to as the   province, is somewhat cooler in  than the coastal areas.
426 atlanta The Southern areas of the Piedmont may receive snow every other year, while areas close to the foothills get snow several times a year. The  res of the Piedmont my receive snow every other yer, while res close to the foothills get snow severl times  yer.
427 atlanta The mountains of Georgia have the coolest climate and most frequent snowfall in the state, although snowfall is less than any other part of the Appalachian Mountains. The mountains of  have the coolest climate and most frequent snowfall in the state, although snowfall is less than any other part of the  .
428 atlanta The main winter weather hazard in northern Georgia is "freezing rain - or rain which freezes upon contact with the ground - which is  or more of snow falling in a 12 hour period, or  or more in a 24 hour period." The main  weather hazard in northern  is "freezing rain - or rain which freezes upon contact with the ground - which is  or more of snow falling in a   period, or  or more in a   period."
429 atlanta The exception to this is the mountain areas of Fannin, Gilmer, Pickens, and other surrounding counties heavy snow is " or more of snow in a 12 hour period or  or more of snow in a 24 hour period". The exception to this is the mountain areas of , , , and other surrounding counties heavy snow is " or more of snow in a   period or  or more of snow in a   period".
430 atlanta Watches for heavy snow are issued when a 50 percent or greater chance of  or more of snow falling in a 12 hour period, or  or more in a 24 hour period is expected. Watches for heavy snow are issued when a 50 percent or greater chance of  or more of snow falling in a   period, or  or more in a   period is expected.
431 atlanta Again, there are exceptionsthan a trace of frozen precipitation has been recorded officially for Atlanta. Again, there are exceptionsthan a trace of frozen precipitation has been recorded officially for .
432 atlanta The criteria for the mountain counties is " inches or more of snow in a 12 hour period or  or more of snow in a 24 hour period". The criteria for the mountain counties is " inches or more of snow in a   period or  or more of snow in a   period".
433 atlanta Summers are hot and humid with temperatures in the afternoons that reach, on average, to near . Summers are hot and humid with temperatures in the afternoons that reach, on average, to near .
434 atlanta Overnight lows fall to near   and there is usually an   difference in temperature between the mountains and Atlanta. Overnight lows fall to near   and there is usually an   difference in temperature between the mountains and .
435 atlanta While humidity in North Georgia, especially in the mountains, can be high it is not as high as it is in South Georgia. While humidity in  , especially in the mountains, can be high it is not as high as it is in  .
436 atlanta Summer thunderstorms add to the humidity in the area by providing  to  of rain during the summer months. thunderstorms add to the humidity in the area by providing  to  of rain during the  .
437 atlanta The annual average temperature in Vancouver is  downtown and  at the Airport, in Richmond, amongst the warmest in Canada. The annual average temperature in  is  downtown and  at the Airport, in , amongst the warmest in .
438 atlanta It is located in a USDA plant hardiness zone of 8 , similar to other coastal or near-costal cities such as Seattle, Portland, Amsterdam and London, as well as places such as Atlanta, Georgia and Raleigh, North Carolina, far to the south. It is located in a  plant hardiness zone of  , similar to other coastal or near-costal cities such as , ,  and , as well as places such as ,  and ,  , far to the south.
439 atlanta The mild climate allows plants such as the Windmill Palm to sustain. The mild climate allows plants such as the Windmill Palm to sustain.
440 atlanta Economic problems and violence have led to an emigration of Colombians to the United States, particularly South Florida (especially in the suburbs of Miami, Florida such as Doral, Kendall, and Hialeah, and the Weston suburb of Fort Lauderdale), Central Florida, New Jersey (North Jersey), Queens County in New York City, Philadelphia, the Washington DC metro area, eastern Long Island, and an expanding community in California, Texas and Georgia, mainly in the Los Angeles, Houston and Atlanta areas. Economic problems and violence have led to an emigration of  to the  , particularly   (especially in the suburbs of ,  such as , , and , and the  suburb of  ),  ,   ( ),   in   , , the   metro area, eastern  , and an expanding community in ,  and , mainly in the  ,  and  areas.
441 atlanta After of World War I, many Colombians immigrated to United States in order to complete their education there, studying in the universities of this country. After of   I, many  immigrated to   in order to complete their education there, studying in the universities of this country.
442 atlanta Most of them settled in New York. Most of them settled in  .
443 atlanta After the civil war in 1948 and increased poverty in Colombia many Colombians also emigrated to United States during the 50's. After the civil war in  and increased poverty in  many ns also emigrated to   during the 's.
444 atlanta In the 60's, the economic crisis prompted the emigration of many Colombians to the United States, obtaining U.S. citizenship 116.444 Between 1960 and 1977 Colombians. In the 's, the economic crisis prompted the emigration of many  to the  , obtaining  citizenship  Between 19 and  .
445 atlanta Since the 80's, many Colombians American fled their urban cities to migrate to areas smaller of states like Connecticut or New Jersey, due to the high cost of living in big cities and an increase in crime in them. Since the 's, many   fled their urban cities to migrate to areas smaller of states like  or  , due to the high cost of living in big cities and an increase in crime in them.
446 atlanta The increase of the guerrillas in Colombia between 1992 and 1997 also boosted the Colombian emigration during this period. The increase of the guerrillas in  between    also boosted the n emigration during this period.
447 atlanta As we discussed earlier, about 75,000 Colombians immigrated at that time the United States, concentrating mostly in the state of California. As we discussed earlier, about   immigrated at that time the  , concentrating mostly in the state of .
448 atlanta The eleven Confederate states in the 1860 census had 297 towns and cities with 835,000 people; of these 162 with 681,000 people were at one point occupied by Union forces. The   states in the  census had  towns and cities with  people; of these  with  people were at  point occupied by Union forces.
449 atlanta Eleven were destroyed or severely damaged by war action, including Atlanta (with an 1860 population of 9,600), Charleston, Columbia, and Richmond (with prewar populations of 40,500, 8,100, and 37,900, respectively); the eleven contained 115,900 people in the 1860 census, or 14% of the urban South. were destroyed or severely damaged by war action, including  (with an  population of ), , ,   (with prewar populations of , ,  , respectively); the  contained  people in the  census, or 14% of the urban South.
450 atlanta Historians have not estimated what their actual population was when Union forces arrived. Historians have not estimated what their actual population was when Union forces arrived.
451 atlanta The number of people (as of 1860) who lived in the destroyed towns represented just over 1% of the Confederacy's 1860 population. The number of people (as of ) who lived in the destroyed towns represented just over 1% of the Confederacy's  population.
452 atlanta In addition, 45 court houses were burned (out of 830). In addition,  court houses were burned (out of ).
453 atlanta The South's agriculture was not highly mechanized. The South's agriculture was not highly mechanized.
454 atlanta The value of farm implements and machinery in the 1860 Census was $81 million; by 1870, there was 40% less, worth just $48 million. The value of farm implements and machinery in the  Census was $81 million; by , there was 40% less, worth just $48 million.
455 atlanta Many old tools had broken through heavy use; new tools were rarely available; even repairs were difficult. Many old tools had broken through heavy use; new tools were rarely available; even repairs were difficult.
456 atlanta Consol Energy operates as a producer of multiple energy sources, primarily for electric power generation. operates as a producer of multiple energy sources, primarily for electric power generation.
457 atlanta The company's largest assets consist of its coal and natural gas divisions, but Consol also maintains support services including "Baltimore Marine Terminal", "River Division", "Research  & Development", "Land Division", and "Fairmont Supply Company". The company's largest assets consist of its coal and natural gas divisions, but Consol also maintains support services including "Baltimore Marine Terminal", "River Division", "Research  & Development", "Land Division", and "Fairmont Supply Company".
458 atlanta Consol's Coal Division operates 12  coal mining complexes in four states in the United States, including Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Virginia and Utah. Consol's Coal Division operates   coal mining complexes in  states in the  , including ,  ,  and .
459 atlanta As of 2011, the company maintained an estimated 4.4 billion tons of proven and probable coal reserves and produced nearly 64 million tons of coal in 2010. As of , the company maintained an estimated   tons of proven and probable coal reserves and produced nearly   tons of coal in .
460 atlanta The coal produced from these mining operations are sold from offices in Pittsburgh, PA, Philadelphia, PA, and Atlanta, GA. The coal produced from these mining operations are sold from offices in , , , , and ,
461 atlanta Consol’s coal division received the U.S. Department of the Interior's Office of Surface Mining National Award for Excellence in Surface Mining for the company's innovative reclamation practices in 2002, 2003, and 2004. Consol’s coal division received      's Office  Surface Mining National Award for Excellence in Surface Mining for  company's innovative reclamation practices in , ,  .
462 atlanta CORRIM was organized to update and expand a 1976 report by the National Academy of Science that evaluated the impacts of producing and using renewable materials. CORRIM was organized to update and expand a  report by the     that evaluated the impacts  producing and using renewable materials.
463 atlanta A research plan for CORRIM was completed in 1998. A research plan for CORRIM was completed in .
464 atlanta Guidelines were developed for a Phase 1 Research plan in 2000 to compile life-cycle inventory (LCI) data for wood-based structural products (lumber, plywood, OSB, LVL, glulam and trusses) from the US Northwest and Southeast producing regions. Guidelines were developed for a Phase  Research plan in  to compile life-cycle inventory (LCI) data for wood-based structural products (lumber, plywood, OSB, LVL, glulam and trusses) from the   and Southeast producing regions.
465 atlanta Based on these data, LCA information was compiled to compare the impacts of representative residential houses framed with wood products, steel or concrete, in both a cold (Minneapolis) and warm (Atlanta) climate. Based on these data,  information was compiled to compare the impacts of representative residential houses framed with wood products, steel or concrete, in both a cold () and warm () climate.
466 atlanta A final report was made available for professional review in 2004 and was published after formal reviews in 2005. A final report was made available for professional review in  and was published after formal reviews in .
467 atlanta A Phase 2 Research Plan was initiated in 2004 to extend the coverage to US Northeast/Northcentral supply regions and to include hardwoods; to the US Inland West supply region to include the interaction with fire management; to a broader range of structures and geographic locations; and to include MDF, particleboard and resins as large volume non-structural uses of wood fiber. A Phase  Research Plan was initiated in 004 to extend the coverage to  Northeast/Northcentral supply regions and to include hardwoods; to the  Inland West supply region to include the interaction with fire management; to a broader range of structures and geographic locations; and to include , particleboard and resins as large volume non-structural uses of wood fiber.
468 atlanta During the 1970s, like with many large cities within the United States, Atlanta's population began to decline. During  , like with many large cities within   , 's population began to decline.
469 atlanta By 1990, the population was 394,017, down almost 20% from its population in 1970, which was 496,973. By , the population was , down almost 20% from its population in , which was .
470 atlanta In addition, the city center and surrounding areas began to go through an urban decay, and crime spiked significantly throughout the 1980s. In addition,  city center and surrounding areas began to go through an urban decay, and crime spiked significantly throughout  .
471 atlanta Along with many other major cities in the United States, Atlanta was hard hit by the crack epidemic of most of the 1980s to early 1990s. Along with many or major cities in   ,  was hard hit by  crack epidemic of most of   to early .
472 atlanta In 1994, Atlanta was ranked the most dangerous city in the country by the Morgan Quitno Press. In ,  was ranked the most dangerous city in the country by the   .
473 atlanta In 2007, drug-related crime in metro Atlanta increased slightly, in part due to Atlanta becoming an important distribution center for cocaine, and other related drugs imported from Mexico. In , drug-related crime in metro  increased slightly, in part due to  becoming an important distribution center for cocaine, and other related drugs imported from .
474 atlanta These increases were mostly seen in Fulton, Gwinnett, DeKalb, Cobb, and Clayton counties. These increases were mostly seen in , , DeKalb, , and  counties.
475 atlanta Many law enforcement agencies in the area have joined forces together with the Atlanta Police Department in an effort to decrease the overall crime in metro Atlanta. Many law enforcement agencies in the area have joined forces together with the    in an effort to decrease the overall crime in metro .
476 atlanta In addition, due to large amounts of gentrification and other revitalization projects in the city core, crime continued to fall, even amidst the hard economic times of the late-2000s. In addition, due to large amounts of gentrification and other revitalization projects in the city core, crime continued to fall, even amidst the hard economic times of the late-2000s.
477 atlanta "Crime in Atlanta, Georgia", while above the national median and a major problem for the city since the middle 20th century, has been declining since the late 1990s. "Crime in , ", while above  national median and a major problem for  city since    , has been declining since   .
478 atlanta Between 2001 and 2009 the crime rate in Atlanta dropped by 40 percent, according to the FBI. Between  and  the crime rate in  dropped by 40 percent, according to the .
479 atlanta Homicide fell 57 percent. Homicide fell 57 percent.
480 atlanta Rape was down 72 percent. Rape was down 72 percent.
481 atlanta Violent crime overall was down 55 percent. Violent crime overall was down 55 percent.
482 atlanta Atlanta’s public safety improvement has occurred at more than twice the rate of the rest of the country. ’s public safety improvement has occurred at more than twice the rate of the rest of the country.
483 atlanta Crime is down across the country, but Atlanta’s improvement has far surpassed the national trend. Crime is down across the country, but ’s improvement has far surpassed the national trend.
484 atlanta This relative improvement explains why Atlanta—after ranking in the top five highest crime cities for most of the previous three decades—now ranks 31st. This relative improvement explains why —after ranking in  top  highest crime cities for most of    — ranks .
485 atlanta Atlanta has lower crime than Salt Lake City, Orlando and Tacoma, Washington. has lower crime than   ,  and , .
486 atlanta The city is served by the Atlanta Police Department, which has an estimated 1,700 officers working in the force. The city is served by the   , which has an estimated  officers working in the force.
487 atlanta Atlanta is divided into six police zones. is divided into  police zones.
488 atlanta In 2002, the United States Department of Health and Human Services estimated 12 million people, age 12 and over, had used methamphetamine—600,000 of which were estimated to be current users—with a growth rate of approximately 300,000 new users per year. In , the         estimated   people, age   over, had used methamphetamine—  which were estimated to be  users—with a growth rate  approximately  new users per .
489 atlanta In 2005, a Los Angeles clinic estimated that one out of three gay or bisexual HIV-positive men admitted to using methamphetamine. In , a   clinic estimated that  out of  gay or bisexual HIV-positive men admitted to using methamphetamine.
490 atlanta Methamphetamine may lower inhibitions, increasing the likelihood of engaging in unprotected sex and sharing needles. Methamphetamine may lower inhibitions, increasing the likelihood of engaging in unprotected sex and sharing needles.
491 atlanta In large metropolitan areas, such as Atlanta, Chicago, Miami and Washington, DC, many CMA groups are designated as "gay/lesbian" reflecting the use of methamphetamine in urban gay communities. In large metropolitan areas, such as , ,  and , , many  groups are designated as "gay/lesbian" reflecting the use of methamphetamine in urban gay communities.
492 atlanta Atlanta, in contrast to other Southern cities, contains a large, and rapidly growing, Roman Catholic population. , in contrast to other  cities, contains a large, and rapidly growing,   population.
493 atlanta The number of Catholics grew from 292,300 members in 1998 to 900,000 members in 2010, an increase of 207 percent. The number of  grew from  members in  to  members in , an increase of 207 percent.
494 atlanta The population is expected to top 1 million by 2011. The population is expected to top   by 20.
495 atlanta The increase is fueled by Catholics moving to Atlanta from other parts of the U.S. and the world, and from newcomers to the church. The increase is fueled by  moving to  from other parts of the  and the world, and from newcomers to the church.
496 atlanta About 16 percent of all metropolitan Atlanta residents are Catholic, comparable to many of Midwestern metropolitan areas. About 16 percent of all metropolitan  residents are , comparable to many of  metropolitan areas.
497 atlanta Today, the city is experiencing new growth. , the city is experiencing new growth.
498 atlanta The completion of Georgia 400 has helped turn Cumming into a commuter town for Atlanta. The completion of   has helped turn Cumming into a commuter town for .
499 atlanta The city holds the Cumming Country Fair & Festival every October. The city holds the Cumming Country Fair & Festival every .
500 atlanta The Sawnee Mountain Preserve also provides views of the city from the top of Sawnee Mountain. The   Preserve also provides views of the city from the top of  .
501 atlanta In 1956, Buford Dam, along the Chattahoochee River, started operating. In ,  , along the  , started operating.
502 atlanta The reservoir that it created is called Lake Lanier. The reservoir that it created is called  .
503 atlanta The lake, being a popular spot for boaters, has generated income from tourists for Cumming as well as provide a source of drinking water. The lake, being a popular spot for boaters, has generated income from tourists for  as well as provide a source of drinking water.
504 atlanta However, because of rapid growth of the Atlanta area, drought, and mishandling of a stream gauge, Lake Lanier has seen record-low water levels. However, because of rapid growth of the  area, drought, and mishandling of a stream gauge,   has seen record-low water levels.
505 atlanta Moreover, the lake is involved in a longstanding lawsuit between Georgia, Alabama, and Florida. Moreover, the lake is involved in a longstanding lawsuit between , , and .
506 atlanta Because of a recent ruling, the city may not be able to withdraw its water. Because of a recent ruling, the city may not be able to withdraw its water.
507 atlanta However, the city is looking into different sources of water such as wells and various creeks. However, the city is looking into different sources of water such as wells and various creeks.
508 atlanta "Cycling in Atlanta" has grown in popularity in recent years, from 0.33% of commutes in 2000 to 1.1% in 2009, aided by improving cycling infrastructure and community support. "Cycling in " has grown in popularity in  , from 0.33% of commutes in  to 1.1% in , aided by improving cycling infrastructure and community support.
509 atlanta Although Atlanta has historically been a city defined by the automobile, its increasingly-compact urban form and mild climate are encouraging residents to cycle to work, shopping, and recreational destinations. Although  has historically been a city defined by the automobile, its increasingly-compact urban form and mild climate are encouraging residents to cycle to work, shopping, and recreational destinations.
510 atlanta Though Atlanta's famed hilly topography can make cycling difficult, many parts of the city are relatively flat, including some of the more densely populated areas. Though 's famed hilly topography can make cycling difficult, many parts of the city are relatively flat, including some of the more densely populated areas.
511 atlanta However, heavy automobile traffic, the lack of bike lanes on many streets, and difficulty in crossing major streets deter most residents from cycling frequently in Atlanta. However, heavy automobile traffic, the lack of bike lanes on many streets, and difficulty in crossing major streets deter most residents from cycling frequently in .
512 atlanta It was intended and retained by the city as a potential site for Atlanta's second airport, however in late summer 2009 it was made known that part may be used for the "Shoal Creek Reservoir", a reservoir that would send water mainly to the city of Atlanta system, at its water works in Sandy Springs. It was intended and retained by the city as a potential site for 's  airport, however in    it was made known that part may be used for the "Shoal Creek Reservoir", a reservoir that would send water mainly to the city of  system, at its water works in  .
513 atlanta However, this  pipeline would result in an interbasin transfer from the Etowah River to the Chattahoochee River, which is currently prohibited by the metro Atlanta water district, and would leave less water in Lake Allatoona. However, this  pipeline would result in an interbasin transfer from the   to the  , which is  prohibited by the metro  water district, and would leave less water in  .
514 atlanta Additionally, Alabama has sued to stop nearly everything Georgia has tried to do with the upstream water supply, including the Hickory Log Creek reservoir. Additionally,  has sued to stop nearly everything  has tried to do with the upstream water supply, including the    reservoir.
515 atlanta Without these lawsuits, it has been estimated that it could be permitted and built by 2013. Without these lawsuits, it has been estimated that it could be permitted and built by .
516 atlanta The lake would be , leaving the remainder as forest. The lake would be , leaving the remainder as forest.
517 atlanta Informal day labor is not new to the United States, and day laborers are not always migrant workers in many cases. Informal  labor is not new to the  , and  laborers are not always migrant workers in many cases.
518 atlanta In his study of day laborers in Atlanta, Terry Easton interviews white and black day laborers in addition to hispanic workers. In his study of  laborers in ,   interviews white and black  laborers in addition to hispanic workers.
519 atlanta Many other metropolitan areas still have non-immigrant day laborers, and many other large and small cities have immigrant day laborers from a variety of countries, including Mongolia, Poland, Russia, Brazil, Central and South America, and countries in Africa. Many other metropolitan areas still have non-immigrant  laborers, and many other large and small cities have immigrant  laborers from a variety of countries, including , , , , Central and  , and countries in .
520 atlanta Non-immigrant informal day labor, seen in many cities, does not generate the controversy or calls to police and local government seen when immigrant day laborers gather to wait for work. Non-immigrant informal  labor, seen in many cities, does not generate the controversy or calls to police and local government seen when immigrant  laborers gather to wait for work.
521 atlanta De-icing on the ground is usually done by spraying aircraft with a de-icing fluid based on propylene glycol, similar to ethylene glycol antifreeze used in some automobile engine coolants. De-icing on the ground is usually done by spraying aircraft with a de-icing fluid based on propylene glycol, similar to ethylene glycol antifreeze used in some automobile engine coolants.
522 atlanta Ethylene Glycol (EG) is still in use for aircraft de-icing in some parts of the world because it has a lower operational use temperature (LOUT) than PG, but Propylene Glycol (PG) is more common because it is classified as non-toxic, unlike Ethylene Glycol. Ethylene Glycol (EG) is still in use for aircraft de-icing in some parts of the world because it has a lower operational use temperature (LOUT) than PG, but Propylene Glycol (PG) is more common because it is classified as non-toxic, unlike Ethylene Glycol.
523 atlanta Nevertheless, it still must be used with a containment system to capture the used liquid, so that it cannot seep into the ground and water courses. Nevertheless, it still must be used with a containment system to capture the used liquid, so that it cannot seep into the ground and water courses.
524 atlanta Even though classified as non-toxic, it has negative effects in nature, since it uses oxygen during breakdown, causing aquatic life to suffocate. Even though classified as non-toxic, it has negative effects in nature, since it uses oxygen during breakdown, causing aquatic life to suffocate.
525 atlanta In one case, a significant snow in Atlanta in early January 2002 caused an overflow of such a system, briefly contaminating the Flint River downstream of the Atlanta airport. In  case, a significant snow in  in    caused an overflow of such a system, briefly contaminating the   downstream of the  airport.
526 atlanta Many airports recycle used de-icing fluid, separating water and solid contaminants, enabling reuse of the fluid in other applications. Many airports recycle used de-icing fluid, separating water and solid contaminants, enabling reuse of the fluid in other applications.
527 atlanta In 2009, DeKalb earned the Atlanta Regional Commission's "Green Communities" designation for its efforts in conserving energy, water and fuel; investing in renewable energy; reducing waste; and protecting and restoring natural resources. In , DeKalb earned the   's "Green Communities" designation for its efforts in conserving energy, water and fuel; investing in renewable energy; reducing waste; and protecting and restoring natural resources.
528 atlanta On 25 May, BP gave Florida $25 million to promote the beaches where the oil had not reached, and the company planned $15 million each for Alabama, Louisiana, and Mississippi. On  ,  gave  $ million to promote the beaches where the oil had not reached, and the company planned $15 million each for , , and .
529 atlanta The Bay Area Tourist Development Council bought digital billboards showing recent photos from the gulf coast beaches as far north as Nashville, Tennessee and Atlanta. The      bought digital billboards showing recent photos from the gulf coast beaches as far north as ,  and .
530 atlanta Along with assurances that the beaches were so far unaffected, hotels cut rates and offered deals such as free golf. Along with assurances that the beaches were so far unaffected, hotels cut rates and offered deals such as free golf.
531 atlanta Also, cancellation policies were changed, and refunds were promised to those where oil may have arrived. Also, cancellation policies were changed, and refunds were promised to those where oil may have arrived.
532 atlanta However, revenues remained below 2009 levels. However, revenues remained below  levels.
533 atlanta The city of Atlanta also has one of the highest LGBT populations per capita. The city of  also has  of the highest  populations per capita.
534 atlanta It ranks 3rd of all major cities, behind San Francisco   and slightly behind Seattle, with 12.8% of the city's total population recognizing themselves as gay, lesbian, or bisexual. It ranks  of all major cities, behind     and slightly behind , with 12.8% of the city's total population recognizing themselves as gay, lesbian, or bisexual.
535 atlanta According to the 2000 United States Census (revised in 2004), Atlanta has the twelfth highest proportion of single-person households nationwide among cities of 100,000 or more residents, which was at 38.5%. According to the    Census (revised in ),  has the  highest proportion of single-person households nationwide among cities of  or more residents, which was at 38.5%.
536 atlanta Metro Atlanta is increasingly international, with its 716,434 foreign-born residents in 2010, a 69% increase versus 2000. is increasingly international, with its  foreign-born residents in , a 69% increase versus .
537 atlanta This was the fourth largest rate of growth among the nation's top 100 metros, after Baltimore, Orlando and Las Vegas. This was the  largest rate of growth among the nation's top  metros, after ,  and  .
538 atlanta The foreign-born proportion of the population went up from 10.3% to 13.6%, and Atlanta moved up from 14th to 12th in ranking of US metro areas with the largest immigrant population by sheer numbers. The foreign-born proportion of the population went up from 10.3%  13.6%, and  moved up from    in ranking of  metro areas with the largest immigrant population by sheer numbers.
539 atlanta Still, its 13.6% proportion of immigrants is only the 29th highest of the nation's top 100 metros. Still, its 13.6% proportion of immigrants is only the  highest of the nation's top  metros.
540 atlanta Hispanic Americans are the fastest growing ethnic group. Hispanic  are the fastest growing ethnic group.
541 atlanta At 10.4% of the metro's population in 2010, versus only 6.5% in 2000, the metro's Hispanic population increased an astounding 103.6%, or 278,459 people, in ten years. At 10.4% of the metro's population in , versus only 6.5% in , the metro's Hispanic population increased an astounding 103.6%, or  people, in  .
542 atlanta Major Hispanic groups include 314,351 Mexicans, 43,337 Puerto Ricans and 17,648 Cubans. groups include  ,    and  .
543 atlanta All of those groups' populations increased by over 90% in the ten-year period. All of those groups' populations increased by over 90% in the  period.
544 atlanta Of the metro's 279,000-person increase in the Hispanic population from 2000 to 2010, 98,000 came in Gwinnett County, 37,000 in Cobb, 25,000 in Fulton (all but 3,000 outside the city of Atlanta), 20,000 in Hall, and 15,000 in DeKalb County. Of the metro's 279,000-person increase in the  population from   ,  came in  ,  in ,  in Fuln (all but  outside the city of ),  in Hall, and  in  .
