With a humanitarian support mission for the people of New Orleans, the Task Force performed logistical missions from purifying water to providing engineer support to help clean up the streets in support of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and Joint Task Force Katrina.
Working in sometimes difficult conditions, the task force was able to accomplish many tasks during their deployment including offering remedies to supply flow issues and establishing a donation distribution warehouse.

On 29 August 2005, Hurricane Katrina struck the gulf coast of Louisiana and Mississippi while most members of the Washington Artillery were still serving their final weeks of deployment in Iraq.
Following the return of the Battalion to Louisiana, a detachment immediately mobilized to New Orleans to aid law enforcement with rescue efforts.
With the help of the Louisiana State Police, those efforts transitioned into a support mission for the New Orleans Police Department.
Joint Task Force Gator was created to help combat the rise of looting and other crimes resulting from the loss of law enforcement officers in the New Orleans area.
After three-and-a-half years of assisting local police and patrolling the city, the task force was released from duty on 28 February 2009.

In the general flooding of New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005, most of the ward from about Green Street back was flooded, while most of the area from around Freret Street to the Mississippi River was above the flood waters.
The dry area experienced extensive looting in the aftermath of the storm and levee failure.

At least 6,000 fatalities occurred on Guadeloupe, which was a higher death toll than any known hurricane before it.
The storm struck a large convoy of French and Dutch merchant ships, sinking or running aground 60% of the vessels.
The ships were transporting goods to Europe.
A hurricane four years later significantly surpassed the death toll of the 1776 storm with a total of 22,000 fatalities.
The 1776 hurricane is currently the seventh deadliest Atlantic hurricane.
Subsequent impact is unknown, although a Louisiana tropical cyclone climatology lists only one hurricane affecting the state in 1776; it was listed as striking New Orleans and causing "some damage".

New Orleans experienced a powerful hurricane on August 24, with winds gusting over 160 mph completely destroying 39 of the 43 buildings in Grand Isle, Louisiana then the eye passing over New Orleans that night, severely damaging structures in what is now known as the French Quarter, causing harvest-ruining crop damage, severe flooding, and tornadoes.
This was from an entry from Count de Lafrenière's diary.
It killed around 25 people.

At about 6:30 am, a portion of the I-wall along the east side of the 17th Street Canal adjacent to the 6900 block of Bellaire Drive split open, sending torrents of water into New Orleans’ Lakeview neighborhood.
The water level in the Canal at the time of failure was about 5 feet lower than the top of the I-wall, well below the design water level.
The breach released storm surge floodwaters that destroyed buildings, homes, and infrastructure.
The initial breach expanded to a nearly 450-foot wide gap.
Thirty-one (31) victims were recovered from areas directly flooded by breach in 17th street canal levee.

The Army Corps of Engineers' district commander in New Orleans in October 2010 approved an environmental document Thursday that green lights the agency's plan to shore up faulty floodwalls and levees on the 17th Street Canal.
While plans are not finalized, it is likely that a new pumping station will be constructed at the lake edge of the canal, which will serve not only to improve pumping capacity but also to act as a barrier to storm surge and lake flooding; the building would be constructed to act as an additional levee.
As a temporary measure until such a new station can be built, the Corps of Engineers constructed storm surge barrier gates and an interim pump station at the lake end of the canal.
Staunch critics suggested the pumps have inadequate capacity to prevent the canal from overflowing and predicted failure of both the pumps and gates.
In February, 2007, a contract was awarded to WESTON Solutions to increase the pumping capacity of the 17th Street Canal.
On September 1, 2008, the gates were closed as Hurricane Gustav approached the Louisiana coast.
Both hydraulic and direct drive pumps were operated without problem for several hours during the peak storm surge.
The gates remained closed for 18 hours and pumps were operated over a 9-hour period to keep the city from flooding.

IV.
A tropical cyclone was sighted east of Jamaica on August 14.
By August 19, it struck southeast Louisiana as a major hurricane after raking the Caribbean Islands.
It passed just to the west of New Orleans, almost destroying the levee north of town.
The hurricane caused severe flooding, damaged 53 boats, caused $6,000,000 in damage, and 100 deaths.
The British fleet in the War of 1812 was disrupted.

A tropical cyclone was sighted east of Jamaica on August 14.
By August 19, it struck southeast Louisiana as a major hurricane after raking the Caribbean Islands.
It passed just to the west of New Orleans, almost destroying the levee north of town, rolled over the barrier islands and drowned Plaquemines and St. Bernard Parishes and the area around Barataria Bay under  of water.
The parade ground at Fort St. Philip was inundated by  of water and the shoreline along Lake Pontchartrain was similarly inundated, though this was far enough below the French Quarter to spare any flooding of the City.

The "Great Louisiana Hurricane" was a major hurricane that struck New Orleans, Louisiana during the War of 1812.
It was the worst storm of the early history of New Orleans and is very likely the closest landfalling hurricane known to have an impact on the city.

At 5 PM on the 19th, winds began out of the northeast in New Orleans.
Winds increased to a "perfect hurricane" at 11 PM.
Winds abated after 2:30 PM the next day.
Nearly all buildings suffered.
All window panes in City Hall were broken.
Fifteen feet of water covered the city.
Extensive damage to buildings, trees, and 53 boats was seen.
The levee was destroyed, which allowed the storm surge to submerge areas south of the city.

It turned to the northwest, where it made landfall near Last Island, Louisiana as a Category 3 hurricane on August 17.
There it flooded parts of New Orleans from its  storm surge in Lake Pontchartrain and also causing hail.
The back part of the city of New Orleans was completely inundated.
It was simultaneously felt at Pensacola, Florida and Mobile, Alabama, and extended to Natchez, Mississippi  up the Mississippi river.
Its duration was six days from the time it commenced in Barbados and its course cycloidal; the distance passed over by the storm from Barbados to New Orleans is , and the average rate of its progress fourteen miles (21 km) an hour.

In southeastern Louisiana, the Racer's Storm caused immense structural damage, with $200,000 (1837 USD, $3.4 million 2005 USD) in railroad damage occurring.
In New Orleans, Lake Pontchartrain rose eight feet above, with much of the city being flooded in 1 to  of water.

The city of New Orleans was inundated with 13.14 inches (335 mm) of rain.
Every building in the town of Abbeville, Louisiana, was destroyed.
There was severe flooding throughout Plaquemines Parish.

The New Orleans area was hit harder than in the two prior storms to strike the Gulf Coast; the most densely populated areas were now located in the eastern semicircle of the storm, which is one of the most intense quadrants.
Residents in Plaquemines Parish, Louisiana reported the storm to be the worst wind event they had ever experienced.
Coinciding with the beginning of the annual season of sugar production, the storm laid to waste vast fields of sugar cane south and southwest of New Orleans and flattened many sheds used to store farming equipment.
Winds throughout the region of south-central Louisiana inflicted "unparallelled destruction", causing major structural damage.
It was reported to be nearly impossible to walk through the streets of the city at the height at the storm; the winds came with over  of rain.
Thirteen people died in the hurricane at New Orleans.
A five-story brick building succumbed to the force of the hurricane and crashed onto the city below; caught in its path were two other buildings.
This particular incident killed two people.
Many other buildings suffered damaged roofs and broken glass, and telegraph and police wires were brought down.

The easterly winds created a storm surge on Lake Pontchartrain and inundated eastern and northern areas of New Orleans.
The dynamics of the flood were considered "unprecedented", having come within  of the Mississippi River.
Flood waters rose until early on October 4, when they slowly began to recede.
The Jackson Railroad, on the western and northwestern shore of the lake, was flooded up to a depth of , and  of track were washed out.
Numerous families in residents near the railroad were forced to leave their homes and seek shelter upon the onset of rising waters.
Numerous coal boats and steamboats were swamped and sunk in and around Baton Rouge, which experienced its first severe hurricane strike in many years.
Countless trees were uprooted along the Mississippi, and crop damage continued its prevalence going further north.
Natchez saw the highest winds in the town since a tornado in 1840, and although the hurricane struck further west than the previous two, gale winds still extended eastward to Pensacola.

The first two hurricanes to strike the Gulf Coast—in August and September, respectively—caused significant inundation of low-lying and coastal communities, inflicting severe damage and killing dozens of people.
In some cases, flood waters were more than  deep, and the center of destruction shifted slightly with each storm.
Sugar cane crops were destroyed by these two systems as well as the succeeding storm in early October.
Property and infrastructure suffered with all three events.
With the third storm that made landfall, extreme winds blasted the city of New Orleans and surrounding areas.
All other storms remained away from land with no effects except on shipping.

Storm conditions battered New Orleans, Louisiana, on August 11, with winds of up to roughly  and heavy rainfall.
The hurricane wrought a great deal of damage throughout southeastern Louisiana.
At least 35 to 40 people drowned when a low-lying community at the eastern end of Lake Pontchartrain was inundated with flood waters up to a depth of , a result of intense and persistent winds generating a significant storm surge.
It was reported that in the town "there is hardly a house remaining".
A railroad wharf near the lake was largely destroyed, and another settlement called Milneburg was flooded; residents were rescued by boat.
In Plaquemines Parish, where vast areas of land were left underwater, the hurricane was the most severe since 1812.
At least 20 additional people drowned, although it was suspected that since up to 200 fishermen along the Mississippi River would have had extreme difficulty finding shelter amid the rapidly rising waters, the death toll was probably substantially higher.
The storm flattened sugarcane fields across the parish: "the knowing ones will say that two thousand hogshead of sugar less will be made here", according to a post-storm account.
Monetary losses from the destruction totaled over $250,000.
Rice and corn crops were also ruined, and 300 head of cattle drowned in the flood on Cat Island.

An article published in "The Times-Picayune" contrasted this hurricane with the cyclone of August, noting that the two storms were of similar intensity, and although the September system did not last as long in any one location, hydrology played a more significant role: "in August the swamps were nearly dry and the waters from the lake found a natural outlet; whereas, yesterday, the swamp being full, the water rose in the streets of Milneburgh and covered the railroad track for some distance."
In New Orleans proper, heavy rain and gusty winds were reported, but no flooding was observed.
The worst damage from the hurricane most likely occurred in Biloxi, where the coastline itself was altered by up to  and the lighthouse was swept out to sea.
A hotel collapsed amid the disaster, killing at least one person, and loose debris covered the town.
At East Pascagoula, Mississippi, the sea rose well beyond that of any storm in around 40 years, and nearby a wharf was totally destroyed.
Initial estimates placed total damage in the area at $40,000.
The storm was just as severe in Mobile, Alabama, and the majority of the $1 million in losses there was from lost cotton stored on flooded wharves.
At Pascagoula, water reportedly rose  in 20 minutes.

The third and final hurricane known to have existed prior to reanalysis formed in the south-central Gulf of Mexico.
Ludlum (1963) describes the storm along the Gulf Coast, but a reconstruction of its track further south, including its intensification, was made possible by ship reports.
In particular, a schooner along the coast of the Yucatán Peninsula encountered stormy conditions around September 30 with southeasterly winds and was driven northward through the Gulf.
The storm moved toward the north for a few days, reaching its peak with winds of  early on October 2. It likely made landfall on the Atchafalaya Basin around noon on October 2 before passing west of New Orleans, weakening to a tropical storm before moving into central Mississippi.
Strong winds at New Orleans lasted more than 24 hours.

The second known storm of the season was reported near Brownsville, Texas on June 30.
Its existence is known based on a newspaper report in the New Orleans Times.
The winds were estimated at 60 mph (95 km/h); however, it is a potentially unreliable estimate due to a lack of significant population providing observations.
The entire track of the storm is unknown.

A ship sunk in the western Gulf of Mexico on October 1, which was the first indication of the second tropical cyclone of the season.
The storm moved slowly northeastward toward the southeastern Louisiana coastline, intensifying to its estimated peak winds of 70 mph (115 km/h).
On October 4, it passed near or over southeastern Louisiana, producing heavy rain and gusty winds in New Orleans.
Flooding was observed in portions of the city, and the West Rigolets Lighthouse on Lake Pontchartrain suffered $5,000 in damage due to the storm (1868 USD, $81,000 2010 USD).
The storm accelerated northeastward and struck near Apalachicola, Florida late on October 4.

On September 4, a hurricane was located in the northern Gulf of Mexico, moving north-northwestward.
The next day, it moved ashore in southeastern Louisiana with winds estimated at 80 mph (130 km/h), passing west of New Orleans.
It dissipated early on September 6.
The hurricane dropped heavy rainfall along its path that caused flooding.
In addition, strong winds uprooted trees and damaged fences.
High tides flooded Grand Isle with  of water.

A tropical storm  was first sighted north of the Yucatan Peninsula on June 8.The storm moved northwest and then north, eventually hitting Houston, Texas.
The storm track was nearly identical to that of Tropical Storm One in terms of wind speed and point of landfall.
Many ships were wrecked and several houses and a church destroyed at Galveston.
Rain from this cyclone aggravated the flooding in New Orleans caused by Tropical Storm One a week earlier.

A strong,  tropical storm  was first observed south of Florida on June 1.
The storm traversed through the Gulf of Mexico before making landfall near Houston, Texas as a tropical storm on June 4, where a minimum pressure of 999 mbar was measured.
A station in Galveston, Texas recorded  of rain during a 14 minute time span on June 4.
Galveston was partially flooded with some railroads and buildings washed away.
One vessel, the steamship "Alabama" was thrown ashore at Galveston,while another,the "Virginia Dare" grounded on an offshore sandbar there.
Extremely heavy rains associated with this cyclone also caused flooding in New Orleans.
The New York Times,on June 6,reported that five hundred blocks of the city were submerged.
Eventually the storm dissipated in present-day Oklahoma.

The Atlantic hurricane database (HURDAT) recognizes eight tropical cyclones for the 1871 season.
Two were tropical storms and six were hurricanes, with winds of 75 mph (119 km/h) or greater.Tropical Storm One travelled from south of Florida on June 1 to make landfall near Houston, Texas before dissipating further inland.The second tropical storm of the season also made landfall near Houston.Both storms caused considerable damage in Galveston and brought flooding to New Orleans.The third cyclone of the season, and the first hurricane, travelled west from the Bahamas to make landfall in central Florida.It passed through Florida, Georgia and South Carolina and out into the Atlantic.There it looped back and made landfall in Georgia as a tropical storm.Hurricane Four, the second hurricane of the season, started as a tropical storm west of Cape Verde.It crossed the Atlantic to make landfall, first in the Lesser Antilles,then in the Bahamas and then Florida before crossing the Florida peninsula into the Atlantic.Hurricane Five was a category 2 hurricane,active between August 30 and September 2, that did not make landfall anywhere.Hurricane Six was a category one hurricane that travelled from the Gulf of Mexico across Florida between September 5 and September 8.Hurricane Seven developed from a tropical storm, which was first seen in the Bay of Campeche on September 30.It strengthed to a category 1 hurricane as it travelled off the Texas coast but weakened back to a tropical storm before crossing the Florida peninsula.This cyclone was responsible for numerous shipwrecks.Hurricane Eight, the last cyclone of the season was first seen as a category 1 hurricane on October 10, north-east of the British Virgin Islands.The hurricane travelled as far north as Nova Scotia before dissipating on October 13.

A tropical storm was first detected near the Bahamas on August 14.
As it neared the coast of Florida, it strengthened to a Category 3 hurricane, but weakened over land.
Once over the Gulf of Mexico, it agained strengthened, this time to a Category 2. It made landfall on Louisiana on the 19th, causing storm surge and heavy rain, New Orleans itself receiving nearly a foot of rain.
The storm recurved over the Ohio Valley and brought more rain, this time to the mid-Atlantic region where it caused 3 deaths.
In all, this storm caused $2.7 million in damage.

On September 8, the 4th tropical storm formed in the southwestern Gulf of Mexico northwest of Campeche.
After tracking to the northeast, it made landfalls near New Orleans and near the Louisiana-Mississippi state lines as a 60 mph tropical storm.
On September 13 the storm became extratropical over Tennessee, and lost its identity on September 17 near Greenland.

The season's fourth storm had an unusual origin southwest of the Azores Islands on August 2.
It moved west-southwestward for six days before reaching tropical storm strength near the Bahamas.
It hit near West Palm Beach on August 10, crossed South Florida.
It hit Grand Isle, Louisiana on August 14, producing levee breeches which flooded New Orleans, and destroyed every building in Port Eads, Louisiana other than the lighthouse.
It hit near Gulfport, Mississippi on August 16, after causing 10 deaths and over $1 million in damage (1901 USD).

The hurricane caused severe damage along the Gulf Coast.
Many marine vessels were blown ashore or sunken in Pensacola, and railroads in the city were severely damaged.
Numerous wharfs were damaged or destroyed, and many roofs were torn off buildings.
Three forts in the vicinity of Pensacola suffered damage.
Electricity in the city was shut off.
A total of 35 people were killed in Pensacola.
Mobile and surrounding areas suffered similar damage, including destroyed timber, smashed windows, and sunken watercraft.
In Mississippi, over 300,000 cotton bales were ruined during the hurricane, amounting to $12,000,000 in damage.
Damage in New Orleans was minimal; however, Lake Pontchartrain overflowed, flooding the city.
The hurricane killed a total of 134 people.

In New Orleans, observations at the backwater of the Mississippi River indicated a storm surge of about  in height on the morning of September 27.
The highest sustained winds recorded during the storm in New Orleans were measured at 49 mph (79 km/h), while the minimum pressure recorded was 987 mbar (hPa; 29.15 inHg).
In the town of Burrwood, a wharf was impacted by the hurricane's storm surge.
In addition, local crops and railroads suffered severe damage.
Lake Pontchartrain overflowed during the hurricane, with its waters  above normal levels, flooding New Orleans.
Telegraph wires were down in New Orleans after the hurricane, resulting in the loss of contact with the city.
Chimneys were blown down in the city; and a resort along Lake Pontchartrain was underwater, and many houses were swept away near the hotel.
Telephone service in New Orleans went down during the hurricane.
It was reported that Fort St. Philip was flooded by boaters along the Mississippi River.
The hurricane set a new 24-hour-record for rainfall at Colliston, where rainfall amounted to  accumulated during the hurricane.

In New Orleans, the storm caused substantial damage, with many homes destroyed and ships wrecked.
Communication with the city was completely lost after most of the telegraph wires were downed.
Around 3:00 pm on September 21, advisories from the New Orleans Weather Bureau ceased, leading to concerns over the state of the city.
Prior to the communication loss, the Weather Bureau reported that waves along the Mississippi River banks were surpassing  and water rise in New Orleans itself could reach unprecedented levels.
Several lakes overflowed their banks as water from the Mississippi River back-flowed into them, flooding nearby lowlands.
The resulting floods, which inundated areas with upwards of  of water, were similar in scale to the flooding caused by Hurricane Katrina in 2005, nearly 100 years later.
However, due to the lack of residential buildings in the area at the time, the flooding caused far less destruction than that of Katrina.
A report falsely claimed that the city's French Quarter was  "swept away".
A total of 306 coal barges sank off the coast of New Orleans and Lobdel, incurring over $1 million in losses.
Nearly every sugar cane plantation between New Orleans and Baton Rouge sustained damage, resulting in at least $1 million in loses.

A barometric reading of 951 mbar (28.11 inHg) was at the time the lowest ever measured on land in the United States.
The storm caused severe flooding and killed 275 people, a number possibly reduced to well-executed warnings.
Winds tore off roofs and damaged buildings in New Orleans, where pressure was measured at down to 28.01" and a wind speed of 98 mph.
Generations in south east Louisiana would refer to it as the Great Storm of 1915.
Property damage in Louisiana was estimated at $13 million (1915 USD, $239 million in 2005 USD), with $5 million of that in the city of New Orleans.

The "New Orleans Hurricane of 1915" was an intense Category 4 hurricane that made landfall near Grand Isle, Louisiana during the 1915 Atlantic hurricane season.
The hurricane killed 275 people and caused $13 million (1915 US dollars) in damage.

In New Orleans winds of  reached the city at 7am, climbing to  an hour over the next 5 hours.
Hurricane conditions were experienced from the afternoon into the night, with steady winds of  and gusts up to .
There were reports of damage in New Orleans, with roofs blown off buildings and the Presbytère on Jackson Square losing its cupola.
The clock on St. Louis Cathedral stopped at 5:50pm, the height of the storm.
The hurricane damaged the Times-Picayune building, hampering  newspaper production.
More church steeples in the city were blown down or significantly damaged than remained intact.

On September 21, the U.S. Weather Bureau issued advisories because of strong swells in the Leeward Islands, indicating the presence of a tropical disturbance.
On September 23, northeast storm warnings were issued for the Florida coast from West Palm Beach to Boca Grande.
On September 25, the Weather Bureau advised marine traffic to remain alert in the Gulf of Mexico, noting that the intensity of the storm was unknown.
Later, hurricane warnings were issued from Apalachicola, Florida to Mobile on September 25.
Warnings were also released from Pascagoula, Mississippi to New Orleans on September 26.
The warnings were briefly discontinued because of track uncertainties, but they were re-issued when the cyclone began to curve northeast.
On September 27 and 28, scheduled vessel trips were cancelled in New Orleans.
Marine traffic resumed after the storm passed east of the city.
The storm struck the Gulf Coast later than anticipated because of slow forward motion.

In the Gulf of Mexico, the cyclone turned north on September 26, and it slowly weakened.
It passed 110 miles (180 km/h) southeast of New Orleans with 120 mph (195 km/h) winds on September 28.
Early on September 29, the hurricane made landfall near Fort Walton Beach as a marginal Category 3 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
Originally, the Atlantic hurricane database listed the storm as a 100 mph (160 km/h) hurricane over northwest Florida.
It quickly weakened to a tropical storm over southeastern Alabama, and it merged with an extratropical frontal system in southern Georgia on September 30.

At 10 a.m. on September 8, northeast storm warnings were hoisted for the Florida coast between Jupiter and Key West.
By 1 p.m., the storm warnings were changed to hurricane warnings.
At 2 p.m., northeast storm warnings went up for the Tampa Bay area.
On September 9, the hurricane warnings were changed back to northeast storm warnings, which were extended along the west coast of Florida northward from Key West to Tampa.
On the 10th at 10:30 p.m., northeast storm warnings were issued from Carrabelle, Florida to New Orleans, Louisiana.
On the 11th at 4 p.m., the storm warnings for the northeast Gulf coast were changed to hurricane warnings, and extended westward along the length of the Louisiana coast.
At 9 p.m., northwest storm warnings were issued for the northwest Gulf coast from Port Arthur to Velasco, Texas.
At 4 p.m. on the 12th, storm warnings were in effect from Mobile, Alabama to Pensacola, Florida, with hurricane warnings in effect along the Mississippi and Louisiana coasts.
On the evening of the 13th, northwest storm warnings were in effect for the entire Texas coast.

Advisories were issued early on August 12 from the U.S. Weather Bureau in New Orleans for the system as it neared Mexico shortly before making landfall, but little damage and no deaths were reported in Mexico.

Although advisories were issued for Mexico on August 29 and early on August 30 from the U.S. Weather Bureau in New Orleans, little overall damage was reported in mainland Mexico.

An area of disturbed weather over Central America organized into a tropical storm in the Bay of Campeche on September 23.
Uneventfully, it moved generally north-northeastward through the Gulf of Mexico and its winds strengthened to a peak of .
The storm made landfall on south-central Louisiana on September 26, and dissipated later that day.
The Weather Bureau office in New Orleans posted numerous advisories, although the effects from the storm were minimal.

On September 18, the hurricane entered the Gulf of Mexico and threatened the Florida Panhandle, but later its track moved farther west than expected, ultimately leading to a landfall southeast of New Orleans, Louisiana.
Upon making landfall, the storm killed 34 people on the Gulf Coast of the United States and produced a storm tide as high as , flooding millions of square miles and destroying thousands of homes.
The storm was the first major hurricane to test Greater New Orleans since 1915, and the widespread flooding that resulted spurred flood-protection legislature and an enlarged levee system to safeguard the flood-prone area.
In all, the powerful storm killed 51 people and caused $110 million (1947 US$) in damage.
It remains one of only four hurricanes to strike the United States with maximum sustained winds of at least 155 mph (250 km/h).

As the hurricane entered the Gulf of Mexico, initial forecasts expected the storm to strike between Apalachicola and Pensacola, Florida, but by 0415 UTC on September 19, hurricane warnings were issued by the Weather Bureau office in New Orleans covering Saint Marks ("Spanish:" San Marcos), Florida, to Morgan City, Louisiana.
As the storm neared Louisiana, Emile Verret, the acting governor of Baton Rouge, closed the state capital and sent public officials home.
In New Orleans, local National Guard units were mobilized.

The storm is most commonly called the 1947 Fort Lauderdale hurricane but is sometimes referred to as "Hurricane George," the "1947 New Orleans hurricane," or the "1947 Pompano Beach (or Broward) hurricane."
If this same storm were to hit today it would probably do around $11.72 billion (2004 US$) in damages.

Once over water, the hurricane had diminished to about 90 mph (145 km/h); though no further reconnaissance missions were dispatched to estimate its intensity over the Gulf of Mexico,  it is believed to have begun reintensifying as it turned west-northwest and its forward motion increased to 15 mph (25 km/h).
On September 19, the hurricane moved ashore over Saint Bernard Parish, Louisiana, as a major hurricane with sustained winds of at least .
The hurricane quickly weakened as it moved over the New Orleans metropolitan area, although its strong winds gusted to 125 mph (175 km/h) in New Orleans, Louisiana.
The eye passed over Baton Rouge, the state capital, between 2000 and 2020 UTC, with anemometers registering sustained winds of  at 2045 UTC.
On September 20, the storm rapidly weakened to a tropical depression over northeastern Texas, but the remnant circulation turned northeast over southeastern Oklahoma and northwest Arkansas.
On September 21, it dissipated over southern Missouri.

A storm tide of up to  was reported along the western half of the Mississippi coastline,  causing heavy damage in Bay St. Louis, Gulfport, and Biloxi.
The recorded tides in these communities were the highest ever recorded until Hurricane Camille, a Category 5 hurricane in 1969 and the strongest hurricane to strike the United States with sustained winds of , produced tides of up to .
Although the storm had weakened by its second landfall, the hydrology of the region makes it particularly vulnerable to hurricanes.
12 people were killed in Louisiana and 22 in Mississippi.
In both states combined, the Red Cross reported that the storm destroyed 1,647 homes and damaged 25,000 others, with the majority, up to 90%, of the destroyed having been due to water.
In New Orleans, the storm produced an estimated 1947 USD$100,000,000 worth of damage to the city.
Barometric pressures as low as 971.6 mb (28.69 inHg) and sustained winds as high as , equivalent to Category 2 intensity, were reported as far inland as Baton Rouge.

A large part of Greater New Orleans was flooded, with  of water shutting down Moisant Field and  of water in parts of Jefferson Parish.
The storm surge in Louisiana peaked at – at Shell Beach on Lake Borgne—today submerged due to erosion from the construction in 1968 of the Mississippi River Gulf Outlet—and at  in Ostrica.
The surge overtopped the 9-ft-tall (2.7-m) Orleans Parish seawall, built by the Orleans Levee Board in the 1920s to prevent a repeat of the 1915 hurricane there, and spread water over  of the parish, as far from Lake Pontchartrain as Gentilly Ridge.
In Jefferson Parish,  were flooded for as long as two weeks.
Subsidence settled behind the levees, leaving “topographic bowls” containing up to  of water, to be excavated by dredging and pumping the water back into Lake Pontchartrain.
Saint Bernard and Plaquemines parishes were also inundated by an 11-ft (3.4-m) storm surge, though mainly sparsely populated areas were affected.

The center of the storm, estimated at the time to have been  wide,  passed directly over the business district of New Orleans between 1530 and 1700 UTC,  making the storm the first major hurricane to pass over the city since 1915; no other storm would pass so close to downtown New Orleans until Hurricane Katrina in 2005.
Before the eye arrived, wind instruments at Moisant Airport were disabled after just having registered sustained winds of .
Due to the increasing northerly winds, water overtopped sections of the levees on Lake Pontchartrain, leaving some lakefront streets submerged “waist deep,” above the 3-ft (0.92-m) delimiter.
As communications failed during the calm eye, the Weather Bureau office in Fort Worth, Texas, assumed the duties of the New Orleans office by broadcasting advisories to the public.
During the eye, atmospheric pressure in New Orleans dropped as low as 968.9 mb (28.61 inHg) by 1649 UTC.

On September 4, the U.S. Weather Bureau advised residents that the storm was expected to strike land between Morgan City and Grand Isle around midnight, as its forward motion had increased to .
The weather service also noted that abnormally high tides were expected from the Mississippi River to Pensacola, as the center was predicted to pass east of New Orleans and move to the west of Biloxi shortly before dawn.
1,000 people left their homes in Terrebonne Parish and took shelter in a courthouse and school buildings in Houma.
As winds increased, city officials in New Orleans ordered 2,000 people to evacuate from a wartime housing project into an auditorium for shelter.
The hurricane produced gusts of  at Moisant Airport, and tides ranged from 6 to  along the coast from Mississippi to the Florida Panhandle.
The maximum tide reached  in New Orleans, and winds caused damage to small boats, trees, and power and communication lines.
At Grand Isle, the heaviest damage occurred to oil rigs and drilling equipment from high tides.
Total damage in the United States reached $900,000, but no loss of life was reported.

The strongest storms of the season attained Category 4 intensity; two of the major hurricanes formed in the western Caribbean Sea and affected the United States in late September and October.
A minimal hurricane struck southern Louisiana, causing tides of five feet and winds of  in New Orleans.
A minimal tropical storm made landfall near Destin in July.
An intense hurricane attained Category 4 strength and produced extensive damage and  wind gusts on Bermuda in mid-September.
A Category 3 hurricane struck the southern portion of Florida, resulting in $12 million of damages in the state.
After the passage of one week, another hurricane affected the region as a Category 3 storm, after crossing Cuba with winds of .
Only three direct fatalities occurred in the United States, largely because of improved evacuations and adherence to warnings and advisories.

On July 27, a tropical depression developed in the northern Gulf of Mexico, about 100 mi (160 km) south of Grand Isle, Louisiana.
A map of the low pressure areas forming in July 1954 indicated that the system originated near the Mississippi Delta and tracked southward.
After forming, the depression tracked northwestward, intensifying into Tropical Storm Barbara early on July 28.
Maximum sustained winds reached 45 mph (75 km/h), although a tanker offshore named the "Henry M. Dawes" reported wind gusts of .
Officials at the United States Weather Bureau posted a storm warning from Cameron to Burrwood, Louisiana, and also advised small craft to remain at port along the entire northern Gulf Coast.
Without intensifying further, Barbara made landfall near Vermilion Bay, Louisiana on July 29, dissipating the next day over Texas.
The storm dropped heavy rainfall along its path, including over  in New Orleans.
The rains caused flooding as well as some damage to the rice crop.
However, the Monthly Weather Review yearly summary described the precipitation as "far more beneficial than damaging".
There was no wind damage.

Tropical Storm Brenda developed in the north-central Gulf of Mexico at 1800 UTC on July 31, with initial winds of 60 mph (95 km/h).
During the next 12 hours, the storm strengthened slightly and attained its maximum sustain wind speed of 70 mph (110 km/h) early on August 1.
Later that day, Brenda made landfall east of New Orleans, Louisiana at the same intensity.
The storm steadily weakened inland and by August 2, it was downgraded to a tropical depression.
Early on August 3, Brenda dissipated while located over eastern Texas.

A tropical storm formed just west of Jamaica on August 23, likely from a tropical wave.
It moved northwestward, crossed the western tip of Cuba, and hit southeastern Louisiana near New Orleans on August 27.
The storm dissipated three days later over Missouri, and caused little damage.

Flossy was the only hurricane of the season to strike the United States.
Winds in Louisiana reached , although an oil rig offshore Grand Isle reported a gust of .
The storm dropped heavy rainfall along its path, peaking at  in Golden Meadow, Louisiana.
The rainfall and the hurricane's accompanying storm surge caused widespread flooding and beach erosion in southeast Louisiana.
The flooding overtopped the eastern seawall in New Orleans, submerging an area of .
Across the region, the resulting flooding drowned cattle and caused heavy crop damage.
Hurricane Flossy left about $27.8 million in damage (1956 USD), mostly from crop damage, as well as 15 deaths.
The rainfall extended through the Mid-Atlantic states, which alleviated drought conditions.

Hurricane Betsy moved across the Atlantic, executing two loops before moving across south Florida and hitting Louisiana on September 9, 1965 as a Category 4 hurricane.
The eye passed to the southwest of New Orleans, though the eyewall covered much of southeast Louisiana for an eight-hour period.
Betsy caused $10–$12 billion (2005 USD) in damage, as well as 76 deaths.
It was the first storm to cause $1 billion US in damage (unadjusted for inflation), thus earning it the nickname "Billion Dollar Betsy".

Upon entering  the Gulf of Mexico, Carmen turned northward and re-intensified as it approached the United States.
Initially threatening the major city of New Orleans, it veered westward and made landfall again over the marshland of southern Louisiana, eventually dissipating over eastern Texas on September 10.
Coinciding with the issuance of tropical cyclone watches and warnings, approximately 100,000 residents left their homes and sought shelter.
Damage was lighter than first feared, but the sugar crop suffered substantial losses.

The depression drifted eastward under the influence of the dissipating frontal trough and intensified into Tropical Storm Florence, as confirmed by Hurricane Hunters.
The storm turned northward on September 9 and accelerated toward the northern Gulf Coast under the influence of a mid- to upper-level trough.
Florence became a hurricane just hours before landfall on the western Mississippi Delta.
The storm rapidly weakened over southeastern Louisiana and lost all its deep convection as it passed over the New Orleans area.
Florence became a depression on September 10 near Baton Rouge and dissipated the next day over northeast Texas.

Earl became a named system in the southwestern Gulf of Mexico on August 31.
It headed generally northeast, and although it retained a subtropical-type structure with a comma head pattern and a large dry slot, it reached hurricane strength on September 2 while 125 miles (232 km) south-southeast of New Orleans, Louisiana.
It made landfall at Category 1 on September 3 near Panama City, Florida.
After travelling inland, Earl became extratropical over Georgia, and then moved back out to sea and was tracked into the North Atlantic until it was absorbed by the extratropical remnants of Hurricane Danielle on September 8.

After the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina in September 2005, the Brigade deployed 2nd Battalion, 227th Aviation and the brigade command team to Louisiana to support disaster relief operations in New Orleans.
Immediately upon redeployment, 2-227 AVN and the brigade command team redeployed to East Texas to assist relief efforts in the wake of Hurricane Rita.
Shortly after returning from the hurricane relief effort, the 2nd Battalion, 227th Aviation Regiment and elements of the 615th Aviation Support Battalion were called upon to support a humanitarian aid mission in the aftermath of the October 2005 earthquake that devastated northern Pakistan.

After Hurricane Katrina hit Louisiana on 31 August 2005, Members of the 1st Battalion, 153rd Infantry Regiment, along with other 39th IBCT units deployed to New Orleans to support the relief and recovery efforts as part of Operation Katrina.
Under tactical control of the Louisiana National Guard, 1–153rd soldiers were given the mission of providing security and food and water.
The mission of the 39th IBCT in Louisiana grew to the point that at one time the brigade was responsible for working with local officials in fourteen parishes.
Members of the 1st Battalion, 153rd Infantry Regiment and the Arkansas National Guard remained deployed in Louisiana until February 2006.

The War on Terrorism generated extreme controversy around the world, with questions regarding the justification for U.S. actions leading to a loss of support for the American government, both in and outside the United States.
Additional armed conflict occurred in the Middle East, including between Israel and Hezbollah, then with Israel and the Hamas.
The greatest loss of life due to natural disaster came from the 2004 tsunami, killing around a quarter-million people and displacing well over a million others.
Cooperative international rescue missions by many countries from around the world helped in efforts by the most affected nations to rebuild and recover from the devastation.
An enormous loss of life and property value came in 2005, when Hurricane Katrina flooded nearly the entire city of New Orleans.
The resulting political fallout was severely damaging to the George W. Bush administration because of its perceived failure to act promptly and effectively.
In 2008, Barack Obama was elected President of the United States, and became the first African-American U.S. president when he succeeded Bush in 2009.

Katrina also had significant political consequences, as President George W. Bush, Louisiana governor Kathleen Blanco, and New Orleans mayor Ray Nagin all came under heavy criticism for what were considered sluggish or inappropriate responses to Hurricane Katrina.
On December 14, 2005, congressional hearings began to investigate whether these claims had any merit.
In addition, Michael Brown, head of the United States Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), was forced to resign from his post after the organization came under fire for what was perceived as an insufficient response to Katrina.

The hardest-hit area was the United States Gulf Coast from eastern Texas to the Florida Panhandle.
First to strike the area was Hurricane Dennis, which caused $2.23 billion in damage along the Florida Panhandle.
Hurricane Katrina caused catastrophic damage to the Gulf Coast, devastating a long stretch of coast along Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama with a 30-foot (9 m) storm surge.
Wind damage was reported well inland, slowing down recovery efforts.
Storm surge also breached levees in the city of New Orleans, Louisiana, flooding about 80% of the city.
Total damage has been estimated at $108 billion, and at least 1,836 people were killed by the storm; Katrina is by far the costliest hurricane in U.S. history, surpassing 1992's Hurricane Andrew, and the deadliest hurricane in the U.S. since 1928.
Hurricane Rita struck near the same area, re-flooded New Orleans (though to a far less degree than Katrina), and caused extensive damage along the coastlines of Louisiana and Texas; total damage is estimated at about $12 billion.
Tropical Storm Arlene and Hurricane Cindy also struck the Gulf Coast but caused much lighter damage.

Tropical Storm Jose followed, forming in the Bay of Campeche on August 22.
It strengthened rapidly but quickly reached the coast and made landfall in the Mexican state of Veracruz on August 23, preventing further strengthening.
Jose forced 25,000 people to evacuate their homes in Veracruz and killed six people in the state of Oaxaca; two more were reported missing.
In all, damage in Mexico amounted to $45 million (2005 USD; $  USD).
Hurricane Katrina formed in mid-August over the Bahamas.
It became a tropical storm on August 24 and reached hurricane intensity before making landfall in south Florida as a minimal hurricane.
A few hours later, the storm entered the Gulf of Mexico and intensified rapidly into a Category 5 hurricane while crossing the Loop Current on August 28.
Katrina made landfall on August 29 near the mouth of the Mississippi River as an extremely large Category 3 hurricane.
Category 5-level storm surge (as the storm had weakened only in the previous several hours) caused catastrophic damage along the coastlines of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama.
Levees separating Lake Pontchartrain from New Orleans, Louisiana were breached by the surge, ultimately flooding about 80% of the city.
Wind damage was reported well inland, impeding relief efforts.
Katrina is estimated to be responsible for at least $81.2 billion (2005 USD; $  USD) in damage, breaking Hurricane Andrew's record in 1992, making it the costliest natural disaster in U.S. history.
It was the deadliest U.S. hurricane since the 1928 Okeechobee Hurricane, killing at least 1,836 people.
The 1900 Galveston Hurricane remains the deadliest natural disaster in United States history, with a death toll of approximately 6,000.

The "2005 Atlantic hurricane season" was the most active Atlantic hurricane season in recorded history, shattering numerous records.
The impact of the season was widespread and ruinous with an estimated 3,913 deaths and record damage of about $159.2 billion.
Of the storms that made landfall, five of the season's seven major hurricanes—Dennis, Emily, Katrina, Rita, and Wilma—were responsible for most of the destruction.
The Mexican states of Quintana Roo and Yucatán and the US states of Florida and Louisiana were each struck twice by major hurricanes; Cuba, the Bahamas, Haiti, Mississippi, Texas, and Tamaulipas were each struck once and in each case brushed by at least one more.
The most catastrophic effects of the season were felt on the United States' Gulf Coast, where a 30 ft (10 m) storm surge from Hurricane Katrina caused devastating flooding that inundated New Orleans, Louisiana and destroyed most structures on the Mississippi coastline; and in Guatemala, where Hurricane Stan combined with an extratropical system to cause deadly mudslides.

According to Professor Raymond Seed of the University of California, Berkeley, a surge of water estimated at 24 feet (7 m), about 10 feet (3 m) higher than the height of the levees along the city's eastern flank, swept into New Orleans from the Gulf of Mexico, causing most of the flooding in the city.
He said that storm surge from Lake Borgne travelling up the Intracoastal Waterway caused the breaches on the Industrial Canal.

In 29 August 2005 there were over 50 failures of the levees and flood walls protecting New Orleans, Louisiana, and its suburbs following passage of Hurricane Katrina and landfall in Mississippi.
The levee and flood wall failures caused flooding in 80% of New Orleans and all of St. Bernard Parish.
Tens of billions of gallons of water spilled into vast areas of New Orleans, flooding over 100,000 homes and businesses.
Responsibility for the design and construction of the levee system belongs to the United States Army Corps of Engineers; the responsibility of maintenance belongs to the local levee boards.
The Corps hands components of the system over to the local levee boards upon completion.
When Katrina struck in 2005, the project was between 60-90% complete.
Five investigations (three major and two minor) were conducted by civil engineers and other experts, in an attempt to identify the underlying reasons for the failure of the federal flood protection system.
All concur that the primary cause of the flooding was inadequate design and construction by the Corps of Engineers.

On August 29, 2005, flood walls and levees catastrophically failed throughout the metro area.
Some – the extent of which is disputed – collapsed well below design thresholds (17th Street and London Canals).
Others collapsed after a brief period of overtopping (Industrial Canal) caused "scouring" or erosion of the earthen levee walls – a design flaw.
In April 2007, the American Society of Civil Engineers called the flooding of New Orleans "the worst engineering catastrophe in US History."

The primary mechanisms of failure at the 17th Street Canal, London Avenue Canal and Industrial Canal (east side north) were improper design.
The failure mechanism for the Industrial Canal (east side south and west side) was  overtopping of levees and floodwalls by the storm surge.
The primary mechanism of failure for levees protecting eastern New Orleans was the existence of sand in 10% of places instead of thick Louisiana clay.
The primary mechanism of failure for the levees protecting St. Bernard Parish was overtopping due to negligent maintenance of the Mississippi River Gulf Outlet, a navigation channel, by the Corps of Engineers.

The engineers responsible for the design of the canal levees and the I-walls embedded in them overestimated the soil strength, meaning that the soil strength used in the design calculations was greater than what actually existed under and near the levee during Hurricane Katrina.
They made an unconservative (i.e., erring toward unsafe) interpretations of the data: the soil below the levee was actually weaker than that used in the I-wall design (ASCE: External Review Panel, pg 48).
Another critical engineering oversight that led to the failure of the 17th Street Canal involves not taking into account the possibility of a water-filled gap which turned out to be a very important aspect of the failures of the I-walls around New Orleans.
“Analysis indicate that, with the presence of a water-filled gap, the factor of safety is about 30 percent lower.
Because a factor of safety of 1.3 was used for design, a reduction of 30 percent would reduce the factor of safety to approximately one: a condition of incipient failure.”
(ASCE: External Review Panel, pg 51)

Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan among other public figures claimed the levees were dynamited to divert waters away from wealthy white areas.
The conspiracy theory reached a United States House of Representatives committee investigating Katrina when a New Orleans community activist made the claim.
The theory became according to the "New Orleans Times Picayune" an "urban myth".
Reasons for belief in these theories were ascribed to the decision by city officials during The Great Mississippi Flood of 1927 to set off 30 tons of dynamite on the levee at Caernarvon, Louisiana which eased pressure on levees at New Orleans but flooded St. Bernard Parish, the Ninth Ward taking the brunt of the city's flooding during Hurricane Betsy, the general disenfranchisement of blacks and lower-class people, and the similarity of sound of the levees collapsing to that of a bombing.

Investigators focused on the 17th Street and London Avenue canals, where evidence showed they were breached even though water did not flow over their tops, indicating a design or construction flaw.
Eyewitness accounts and other evidence show that levees and flood walls in other parts of the city, such as along the Industrial Canal, were topped by floodwaters first, then breached or eroded.
Many New Orleans levee and flood wall failures in the wake of Hurricane Katrina occurred at weak-link junctions where different levee or wall sections joined together, according to a preliminary report released on November 2, 2005, carried out by independent investigators from the University of California, Berkeley and the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE).

Dr. Robert Bea, chair of an independent levee investigation team, has said that the New Orleans-based design firm Modjeski and Masters could have followed correct procedures in calculating safety factors for the flood walls.
He added, however, that design procedures of the Corps may not account for changes in soil strength caused by the changes in water flow and pressure during a hurricane flood.
Dr. Bea has also questioned the size of the design safety margins.
He said the corps applied a 30% margin over the maximum design load.
A doubling of strength would be a more typical margin for highway bridges, dams, off-shore oil platforms and other public structures.
There were also indications that substandard concrete may have been used at the 17th Street Canal.

As of 15 April, the eruption was not large enough to have an effect on global temperatures like that of Mount Pinatubo and other major past volcanic eruptions.
One previous related sequence of eruptions of this volcano, beginning in 1821 is recorded as having lasted for over two years, however no single set of major eruptions is known to have lasted more than 'several days'.
Should the eruption continue for a sufficient length of time at its current intensity, the potential remains for a temporary global cooling effect.
By analogy, the Laki eruption has been linked with extreme weather events from severe hailstorms in Great Britain to the Mississippi River freezing at New Orleans.
Sulfate aerosols that reach the stratosphere catalyze the production of chlorine monoxide (ClO), which destroys ozone (O3).
In the upper troposphere, the same aerosols become nuclei for cirrus clouds, which increase the Earth's albedo and thus alter its radiation balance.
Several eruptions during the past century have caused a decline in the average temperature at the Earth's surface of up to half a degree Celsius for periods of one to three years.

Fourteen people were killed in Arkansas, with 392 killed across seven states in the preceding storms.
Thousands of homes were ordered evacuated, including over 1,300 in Memphis, Tennessee, and more than 24,500 in Louisiana and Mississippi state., though some people disregarded mandatory evacuation orders.
, up to 13% of U.S. petroleum refinery output is expected to be disrupted by flood levels exceeding historical records in several locations, with gasoline prices expected to rise.
The flood crested in Memphis on May 10 and artificially crested in southern Louisiana on May 15, a week earlier than it would have if spillways had not been opened.
The United States Army Corps of Engineers stated that an area in Louisiana between Simmesport and Baton Rouge was expected to be inundated with  of water.
Baton Rouge, New Orleans, and many other river towns are threatened, but officials stressed that they should be able to avoid catastrophic flooding.

The Mississippi River floods in April and May 2011 were among the largest and most damaging recorded along the U.S. waterway in the past century, comparable in extent to the major floods of 1927 and 1993.
In April 2011, two major storm systems deposited record levels of rainfall on the Mississippi River watershed.
When that additional water combined with the springtime snowmelt, the river and many of its tributaries began to swell to record levels by the beginning of May.
Areas along the Mississippi itself experiencing flooding include Illinois, Missouri, Kentucky, Tennessee, Arkansas, Mississippi, and Louisiana.
U.S. President Barack Obama declared the western counties of Kentucky, Tennessee, and Mississippi federal disaster areas.
For the first time in 37 years, the Morganza Spillway was opened on May 14, deliberately flooding  of rural Louisiana to save most of Baton Rouge and New Orleans.

!style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=10%|Position !style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=30%|Starter(s) !style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=30%|Reserve(s) !style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=30%|Alternate(s) |" Julius Peppers, Chicago"" John Abraham, Atlanta" |" Justin Tuck, N.Y.
Giants" |" Justin Smith, San Francisco" |align=center|Outside linebacker |" Brian Orakpo, Washington"" Jon Beason, Carolina" |align=center|Inside linebacker |" Jonathan Vilma, New Orleans"" London Fletcher, Washington" E. J. Henderson, Minnesota A.J. Hawk, Green Bay |" DeAngelo Hall, Washington" |" Antrel Rolle, N.Y.
Giants" |" Roman Harper, New Orleans" !style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=10%|Position !style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=30%|Starter(s) !style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=30%|Reserve(s) !style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=30%|Alternate(s) |" David Akers, Philadelphia" |" Zak DeOssie, N.Y.
Giants"  class="wikitable sortable sortable" border="1" !
AFC Team !! Selections !! NFC Team !! Selections

During Hurricane Katrina in September 2005, members of the unit deployed to New Orleans and Pineville, LA to provide communications in support of recovery efforts.

On August 29, 2005, Hurricane Katrina struck the gulf coast of Louisiana and Mississippi while most members of the 256th Infantry Brigade were still serving their final weeks of deployment in Iraq.
Following the return of the Brigade to Louisiana, a detachment immediately mobilized to New Orleans to aid Law Enforcement with rescue efforts.
With the help of the Louisiana State Police, those efforts transitioned into a support mission for the New Orleans Police Department.
Joint Task Force Gator was created to help combat the rise of looting and other crimes resulting from the loss of law enforcement officers in the New Orleans area.
After three-and-a-half years of assisting local police and patrolling the city, the Task Force was released from duty on February 28, 2009.

After Hurricane Katrina hit Louisiana in August 2005, members of the 2nd Battalion, 153rd Infantry were deployed to New Orleans by C-130s from the Little Rock Air Force Base to support the relief and recovery efforts there.
Under tactical control of the Louisiana National Guard, 2–153rd soldiers were given the mission of providing security and food and water to the citizens of Louisiana.
Members of the 2–153rd IN and the 39th IBCT remained deployed in Louisiana until February 2006.

After the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina in September 2005, the Brigade deployed 2nd Battalion, 227th Aviation and the brigade command team to Louisiana to support disaster relief operations in New Orleans.
Immediately upon redeployment, 2-227 AVN and the brigade command team redeployed to East Texas to assist relief efforts in the wake of Hurricane Rita.
Shortly after returning from the hurricane relief effort, the 2nd Battalion, 227th Aviation Regiment and elements of the 615th Aviation Support Battalion were called upon to support a humanitarian aid mission in the aftermath of the October 2005 earthquake that devastated northern Pakistan.

During the transformation, the Black Jack Brigade once again answered the call of the nation and deployed to New Orleans, Louisiana in support of the humanitarian relief effort following Hurricane Katrina.
During the deployment, the Black Jack Brigade provided humanitarian and military assistance to the local governance and to the citizens of the Algiers district.

On 28 August 2005, in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans, the 39th Support Battalion was ordered to send six cargo trucks and twelve personnel to New Orleans to assist in evacuating the VA hospital.
Not knowing what kind of conditions they would face, the battalion added a wrecker and a fuel truck (from the 35th Aviation Brigade) to the mission and sent sixteen soldiers and eight vehicles to New Orleans.
Each of the volunteer soldiers informed employers and loved ones upon notification of the mission, and within hours they departed Hazen via convoy at approximately 2030 hours.
Their orders were to drive the entire distance that night.
If absolutely necessary, they were to stop and sleep, but there were hundreds of vets counting on their help.
The convoy pressed on through the night, stopping every thirty or forty minutes to walk around and stay awake.
They arrived at the staging area in Alexandria at 0430 the next day and began working around the clock to evacuate over 200 veterans.
Some of the soldiers carried disabled vets on their backs down flights of stairs to load them on their 5-Ton trucks for evacuation.

After Hurricane Katrina hit Louisiana in August 2005, elements of the 39th deployed to New Orleans by C-130s from the Little Rock Air Force Base to support the relief and recovery efforts as part of Operation Katrina.
Under tactical control of the Louisiana National Guard, 39th soldiers were given the mission of providing security and food and water to an estimated 20,000 people at the New Orleans Convention Center on 2 September.
By the afternoon of 3 September, all individuals staying in and around the Convention Center had been evacuated.
The mission of the 39th in Louisiana grew to the point that at one time the brigade was responsible for working with local officials in fourteen parishes.
Elements of the 39th and the Arkansas National Guard stayed deployed in Louisiana until February 2006.

The 39th IBCT is the largest National Guard command in Arkansas.
It is headquartered in Little Rock, Arkansas.
It was placed in federal service on 12 October 2003 in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom II.
The 39th was attached to the 1st Cavalry Division and served in and around Baghdad for a year, returning to the United States in March 2005.
In late August 2005, after Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast of the United States, elements of the 39th, then commanded by Colonel Mike Ross, were among the first military units to provide recovery and relief efforts to citizens of New Orleans, Louisiana.
The 39th lead the effort to evacuate an estimated 16,000 people from the New Orleans Convention Center.
The 39th Brigade completed its second deployment to Iraq in December 2008, after spending a year on active federal duty.
Unlike the last deployment to Iraq from 2004–2005, the 39th Brigade headquarters did not have command and control of all of its subordinate units.

After Hurricane Katrina hit Louisiana in August 2005, elements of the 3rd Battalion, 153rd Infantry were deployed to New Orleans by C-130s from the Little Rock Air Force Base to support the relief and recovery efforts there.
Under tactical control of the Louisiana National Guard, 3rd Battalion soldiers were given the mission of providing security and food and water to an estimated 20,000 people at the New Orleans Convention Center on 2 September.
By the afternoon of 3 September, all individuals staying in and around the Convention Center had been evacuated.
Members of the 3rd Battalion and the 39th IBCT stayed deployed in Louisiana until February 2006.
Operation Katrina was the final operation for 3–153rd Infantry.
By the time the battalion headquarters redeployed to Arkansas after being relieved by 1–153rd IN in October, the 3rd Battalion had already officially ceased to exist.

In September, 2005, in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, Brigadier General Douglas Pritt commanded the majority of the brigade as part of Task Force Oregon in relief and security efforts near the French Quarter in New Orleans.
By the end of the month, when Hurricane Rita wreaked havoc again on the Gulf Coast, the 41st was put in charge of the newly designated Joint Task Force Rita to assist in all disaster-related needs in Texas and Louisiana.

In September, 2005, the 505th PIR deployed a brigade size element, minus the rear detachment, to New Orleans, Louisiana.
Soldiers either flew or convoyed, for three days, to the city to assist in rescue and recovery operations of "displaced Americans", as well as restoring order to the city in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.

The 50th AS is also known for humanitarian relief.
During the 2004 Asian Tsunami crisis, the 50th sent several crews and tons of food rations to Thailand to help those in need.
Following the horrors of Hurricane Katrina, 50th AS aircrews helped relocate survivors from the New Orleans, Louisiana and Biloxi, Mississippi areas to Little Rock, Arkansas.
Humanitarian missions were flown in and out of Haiti following a major earthquake in December, 2010.

On 1 September 2005 the entire Brigade Combat Team was mobilized to deploy to Louisiana after Hurricane Katrina, the sixth strongest hurricane ever recorded in the Atlantic Ocean, slammed into the Gulf Coast.
The 56th SBCT was stationed in and around New Orleans to support the relief effort for nearly a month and a half.
This included a subsequent deployment to the areas damaged by Hurricane Rita, which made land fall near the Louisiana-Texas border.

When Hurricane Katrina struck New Orleans in 2005, the effects were disastrous; see Effect of Hurricane Katrina on New Orleans.
The London Avenue Canal breached catastrophically on both sides, flooding the majority of the Ward and the surrounding area.
The 7th ward has since seen many residents return.

Hurricane Katrina in 2005 provided a unique and unexpected mission for the paratroopers of the unit, as they were deployed to provide assistance to the citizens of Louisiana.
The supporting units were deployed to New Orleans International Airport along with the division's 3rd Brigade and division Artillery units, a force of some 5,000 soldiers.
They conducted security operations and search and rescue missions throughout New Orleans, Louisiana.

The U.S. sea services also respond to domestic emergencies when needed.
When Hurricane Katrina flooded large portions of New Orleans and the Gulf Coast in 2005, maritime forces responded.
Following the late-summer storm, ,  and other Virginia-based Navy ships headed to the Gulf Coast to help with relief efforts.
Thousands of military members were dispatched including Naval Mobile Construction Battalions and six Disaster Relief Teams (DRTs) providing amphibious construction equipment, medical personnel and supplies to the flooded areas.

The online version of the story encompasses a two-part prologue, 13 chapters, and an epilogue — 15 chapters in total.
In the prologue, from a "God's eye" perspective, "A.D." shows Hurricane Katrina as it builds from a tropical storm in the Bahamas and moves inexorably toward New Orleans.
Katrina slams into the Gulf Coast.
Winds and rain lash New Orleans and Biloxi, Mississippi.
The levees burst and the city is flooded.

The 1849 flooding of New Orleans was due to a break in a levee on the Sauvé plantation north of the city on May 3; by May 30, "Sauvé's Crevasse" had caused the inundation of 220 blocks and the displacement of 12,000 people.
After the flood, much of New Orleans had to be repaved, drainage gutters replaced, and a new levee was built on Felicity Street.

The eastern Acadiana region was among those affected by Hurricane Katrina on August 29, 2005 (although the storm was not nearly as severe as from Greater New Orleans eastward).
The region was used by many returning evacuees as a "last stop" of temporary domicile before returning to the Greater New Orleans region.
This was due in large part to the Greater Baton Rouge area already being inundated with evacuees.
Then state Governor Blanco made a public request that those returning not try to seek lodging in the capital due to this crisis of overpopulation.
Lafayette and several other municipalities had both public and church-run shelters set up to handle the influx.
The largest of these shelters, run by the Red Cross, was the Lafayette sports area the Cajundome, holding a reported 9,800 persons.

Flooding in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina disrupted this area ("see:" Effect of Hurricane Katrina on New Orleans), with storm surge funneled by the Mississippi River-Gulf Outlet Canal flooding into this neighborhood in 2005.
There are concerns that the flooding has released additional toxins in the area.
"Press Park", a 56 townhouse housing complex in the area, has been found contaminated with benzopyrene at levels some 50 times EPA health screening level, and remains fenced off as of April 2010.

August 29, 2005,  Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf of Mexico and quickly became the costliest natural disaster in American history ($81.2 billion dollars) causing severe damage in Mississippi, Alabama, and Louisiana.
Worst hit was New Orleans where 80% of the city was covered in floodwater, 1,836 people died, and over 200,000 homes were destroyed.
Aid Still Required has identified the first two projects it would like to support in New Orleans.

"Hurricane Katrina and Mississippi" In August 2005, Hurricane Katrina struck the Gulf Coast with devastating fury.
Within the first two days, Keyes was contacted by a colleague who was working with FEMA and identified as the man coordinating supply distribution in the weeks and months after September 11th.
The representative from FEMA asked him to travel to Mississippi, one of the poorest States in the country, to replicate his work.
Within 24 hours, he was in Birmingham with his friend Kevin Beck loading a truck with water, chainsaws, and gasoline.
Upon arrival in Biloxi, Mississippi, they began delivering supplies and recruiting volunteers to serve critical needs.
During that time ULM placed tarps on over 1,000 roofs and brought in over 1,400 tractor trailers of supplies.
They served over 500,000 hot meals to Katrina victims and volunteers, and immediately relocated 1,100 families to seven different states.
While these initiatives were successful, it quickly became clear that short term programs would not be enough.
The Gulf Coast had been ravaged by Katrina's path, and poverty in the region magnified the impact of the destruction and hindered rebuilding efforts.
The city of Biloxi has set deadlines for homeowners to demolish derelict homes and clear sites, but many of them cannot afford the cleanup costs.
If their deadlines passed, families run the risk of losing their property, so the City Officials asked ULM (now AID for the World) to manage site clearance.
The work in MS continued for two years as thousands of volunteers have come from all over the country to tear down hazardous homes and help families get on their feet financially.
AID has completely remodeled 300 houses and placed 1300 families back in their homes.
AID for the World is committed to helping communities chart a new journey of sustainable development that will promote economic growth for the state.
While homeownership is an important step in that journey, job creation and gainful employment options will help families move into the future.
While requests came from the Department of Homeland Security to branch out of Mississippi into New Orleans, Keyes and the organization' leadership developed a key tenet of AID for the World: Emergency disaster relief programs are more effective in a localized context.
Keeping the agenda of the organization streamlined for specific communities, AID claims to offer simple solutions to affect dramatic and positive change for future generations.

On 29 August 2005, the largest natural disaster the Air Guard faced in its 60 year history began when Hurricane Katrina hit the United States Gulf Coast.
The most severe damage came from a 30-plus-foot storm surge along the Mississippi coast and the north shore of Lake Pontchartrain in Louisiana and breaks in the levies along a canal in New Orleans.
Several weeks later Hurricane Rita devastated portions of western Louisiana and eastern Texas, and then the less severe Hurricane Wilma damaged Florida.

