0 new+orleans With a humanitarian support mission for the people of New Orleans, the Task Force performed logistical missions from purifying water to providing engineer support to help clean up the streets in support of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and Joint Task Force Katrina. With a humanitarian support mission for the people of  , the   performed logistical missions from purifying water to providing engineer support to help clean up the streets in support of the         .
1 new+orleans Working in sometimes difficult conditions, the task force was able to accomplish many tasks during their deployment including offering remedies to supply flow issues and establishing a donation distribution warehouse. Working in sometimes difficult conditions, the task force was able to accomplish many tasks during their deployment including offering remedies to supply flow issues and establishing a donation distribution warehouse.
2 new+orleans On 29 August 2005, Hurricane Katrina struck the gulf coast of Louisiana and Mississippi while most members of the Washington Artillery were still serving their final weeks of deployment in Iraq. On   , Hurricane Katrina struck the gulf coast of  and  while most members of the  Artillery were still serving their final  of deployment in .
3 new+orleans Following the return of the Battalion to Louisiana, a detachment immediately mobilized to New Orleans to aid law enforcement with rescue efforts. Following the return of the Battalion to , a detachment immediately mobilized to   to aid law enforcement with rescue efforts.
4 new+orleans With the help of the Louisiana State Police, those efforts transitioned into a support mission for the New Orleans Police Department. With the help of the   , those efforts transitioned into a support mission for the    .
5 new+orleans Joint Task Force Gator was created to help combat the rise of looting and other crimes resulting from the loss of law enforcement officers in the New Orleans area. Joint Task Force Gator was created to help combat the rise of looting and other crimes resulting from the loss of law enforcement officers in the   area.
6 new+orleans After three-and-a-half years of assisting local police and patrolling the city, the task force was released from duty on 28 February 2009. After   of assisting local police and patrolling the city, the task force was released from duty on   .
7 new+orleans In the general flooding of New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005, most of the ward from about Green Street back was flooded, while most of the area from around Freret Street to the Mississippi River was above the flood waters. In the general flooding of   in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in , most of the ward from about Green  back was flooded, while most of the area from around   to the   was above the flood waters.
8 new+orleans The dry area experienced extensive looting in the aftermath of the storm and levee failure. The dry area experienced extensive looting in the aftermath of the storm and levee failure.
9 new+orleans At least 6,000 fatalities occurred on Guadeloupe, which was a higher death toll than any known hurricane before it. At least  fatalities occurred on , which was a higher death toll than any known hurricane before it.
10 new+orleans The storm struck a large convoy of French and Dutch merchant ships, sinking or running aground 60% of the vessels. The storm struck a large convoy of  and  merchant ships, sinking or running aground 60% of the vessels.
11 new+orleans The ships were transporting goods to Europe. The ships were transporting goods to .
12 new+orleans A hurricane four years later significantly surpassed the death toll of the 1776 storm with a total of 22,000 fatalities. A hurricane    significantly surpassed the death toll of the  storm with a total of  fatalities.
13 new+orleans The 1776 hurricane is currently the seventh deadliest Atlantic hurricane. The  hurricane is  the  deadliest  hurricane.
14 new+orleans Subsequent impact is unknown, although a Louisiana tropical cyclone climatology lists only one hurricane affecting the state in 1776; it was listed as striking New Orleans and causing "some damage". Subsequent impact is unknown, although a  tropical cycl climatology lists only  hurricane affecting the state in ; it was listed as striking   and causing "some damage".
15 new+orleans New Orleans experienced a powerful hurricane on August 24, with winds gusting over 160 mph completely destroying 39 of the 43 buildings in Grand Isle, Louisiana then the eye passing over New Orleans that night, severely damaging structures in what is now known as the French Quarter, causing harvest-ruining crop damage, severe flooding, and tornadoes. experienced a powerful hurricane on  , with winds gusting over  mph completely destroying  of   buildings in  ,  n  eye passing over   that night, severely damaging structures in what is  kn as   , causing harvest-ruining crop damage, severe flooding, and tornadoes.
16 new+orleans This was from an entry from Count de Lafrenière's diary. This was from an entry from Count de Lafrenière's diary.
17 new+orleans It killed around 25 people. It killed around  people.
18 new+orleans At about 6:30 am, a portion of the I-wall along the east side of the 17th Street Canal adjacent to the 6900 block of Bellaire Drive split open, sending torrents of water into New Orleans’ Lakeview neighborhood. At about 6:30 am, a portion of the  along the east side of the  Street Canal adjacent to the  block of   split open, sending torrents of water into  ’  neighborhood.
19 new+orleans The water level in the Canal at the time of failure was about 5 feet lower than the top of the I-wall, well below the design water level. The water level in the Canal at the time of failure was about  feet lower than the top of the I-wall, well below the design water level.
20 new+orleans The breach released storm surge floodwaters that destroyed buildings, homes, and infrastructure. The breach released storm surge floodwaters that destroyed buildings, homes, and infrastructure.
21 new+orleans The initial breach expanded to a nearly 450-foot wide gap. The initial breach expanded to a nearly 450-foot wide gap.
22 new+orleans Thirty-one (31) victims were recovered from areas directly flooded by breach in 17th street canal levee. () victims were recovered from areas directly flooded by breach in  street canal levee.
23 new+orleans The Army Corps of Engineers' district commander in New Orleans in October 2010 approved an environmental document Thursday that green lights the agency's plan to shore up faulty floodwalls and levees on the 17th Street Canal. The    ' district commander in   in   approved an environmental document  that green lights the agency's plan to shore up faulty floodwalls and levees on the  Street Canal.
24 new+orleans While plans are not finalized, it is likely that a new pumping station will be constructed at the lake edge of the canal, which will serve not only to improve pumping capacity but also to act as a barrier to storm surge and lake flooding; the building would be constructed to act as an additional levee. While plans are not finalized, it is likely that a new pumping station will be constructed at the lake edge of the canal, which will serve not only to improve pumping capacity but also to act as a barrier to storm surge and lake flooding; the building would be constructed to act as an additional levee.
25 new+orleans As a temporary measure until such a new station can be built, the Corps of Engineers constructed storm surge barrier gates and an interim pump station at the lake end of the canal. As a temporary measure until such a new station can be built, the    constructed storm surge barrier gates and an interim pump station at the lake end  the canal.
26 new+orleans Staunch critics suggested the pumps have inadequate capacity to prevent the canal from overflowing and predicted failure of both the pumps and gates. Staunch critics suggested the pumps have inadequate capacity to prevent the canal from overflowing and predicted failure of both the pumps and gates.
27 new+orleans In February, 2007, a contract was awarded to WESTON Solutions to increase the pumping capacity of the 17th Street Canal. In   a contract was awarded to   to increase the pumping capacity of the  Street Canal.
28 new+orleans On September 1, 2008, the gates were closed as Hurricane Gustav approached the Louisiana coast. On    the gates were closed as Hurricane Gustav approached the  coast.
29 new+orleans Both hydraulic and direct drive pumps were operated without problem for several hours during the peak storm surge. Both hydraulic and direct drive pumps were operated without problem for   during the peak storm surge.
30 new+orleans The gates remained closed for 18 hours and pumps were operated over a 9-hour period to keep the city from flooding. The gates remained closed for   and pumps were operated over a  period to keep the city from flooding.
31 new+orleans IV. .
32 new+orleans A tropical cyclone was sighted east of Jamaica on August 14. A tropical cyclone was sighted east of  on  .
33 new+orleans By August 19, it struck southeast Louisiana as a major hurricane after raking the Caribbean Islands. By  , it struck southeast  as a major hurricane after raking the  .
34 new+orleans It passed just to the west of New Orleans, almost destroying the levee north of town. It passed just to the west of  , almost destroying the levee north of town.
35 new+orleans The hurricane caused severe flooding, damaged 53 boats, caused $6,000,000 in damage, and 100 deaths. The hurricane caused severe flooding, damaged  boats, caused $6,000,000 in damage, and  deaths.
36 new+orleans The British fleet in the War of 1812 was disrupted. The  fleet in the War of  was disrupted.
37 new+orleans A tropical cyclone was sighted east of Jamaica on August 14. A tropical cyclone was sighted east of  on  .
38 new+orleans By August 19, it struck southeast Louisiana as a major hurricane after raking the Caribbean Islands. By  , it struck southeast  as a major hurricane after raking the  .
39 new+orleans It passed just to the west of New Orleans, almost destroying the levee north of town, rolled over the barrier islands and drowned Plaquemines and St. Bernard Parishes and the area around Barataria Bay under  of water. It passed just to the west of  , almost destroying the levee north of town, rolled over the barrier islands and drowned  and    and the area around   under  of water.
40 new+orleans The parade ground at Fort St. Philip was inundated by  of water and the shoreline along Lake Pontchartrain was similarly inundated, though this was far enough below the French Quarter to spare any flooding of the City. The parade ground at    was inundated by  of water and  shoreline along   was similarly inundated, though this was far enough below    to spare any flooding of  City.
41 new+orleans The "Great Louisiana Hurricane" was a major hurricane that struck New Orleans, Louisiana during the War of 1812. The "Great  Hurricane" was a major hurricane that struck  ,  during the War of .
42 new+orleans It was the worst storm of the early history of New Orleans and is very likely the closest landfalling hurricane known to have an impact on the city. It was the worst storm of the early history of   and is very likely the closest landfalling hurricane known to have an impact on the city.
43 new+orleans At 5 PM on the 19th, winds began out of the northeast in New Orleans. At 5 PM on the , winds began out of the northeast in  .
44 new+orleans Winds increased to a "perfect hurricane" at 11 PM. Winds increased to a "perfect hurricane" at 11 PM.
45 new+orleans Winds abated after 2:30 PM the next day. Winds abated after     .
46 new+orleans Nearly all buildings suffered. Nearly all buildings suffered.
47 new+orleans All window panes in City Hall were broken. All window panes in City Hall were broken.
48 new+orleans Fifteen feet of water covered the city. feet of water covered the city.
49 new+orleans Extensive damage to buildings, trees, and 53 boats was seen. Extensive damage to buildings, trees, and  boats was seen.
50 new+orleans The levee was destroyed, which allowed the storm surge to submerge areas south of the city. The levee was destroyed, which allowed the storm surge to submerge areas south of the city.
51 new+orleans It turned to the northwest, where it made landfall near Last Island, Louisiana as a Category 3 hurricane on August 17. It turned to the northwest, where it made landfall near  ,  as a Category  hurricane on  .
52 new+orleans There it flooded parts of New Orleans from its  storm surge in Lake Pontchartrain and also causing hail. There it flooded parts of   from its  storm surge in   and also causing hail.
53 new+orleans The back part of the city of New Orleans was completely inundated. The back part of the city of   was completely inundated.
54 new+orleans It was simultaneously felt at Pensacola, Florida and Mobile, Alabama, and extended to Natchez, Mississippi  up the Mississippi river. It was simultaneously felt at ,  and Mobile, , and extended to ,   up the  river.
55 new+orleans Its duration was six days from the time it commenced in Barbados and its course cycloidal; the distance passed over by the storm from Barbados to New Orleans is , and the average rate of its progress fourteen miles (21 km) an hour. Its duration was   from the time it commenced in  d its course cycloidal; the distce passed over by the storm from  to   is , d the average rate of its progress  miles ( km)  .
56 new+orleans In southeastern Louisiana, the Racer's Storm caused immense structural damage, with $200,000 (1837 USD, $3.4 million 2005 USD) in railroad damage occurring. In southeastern , the Racer's Storm caused immense structural damage, with $200,000 ( USD, $3.4 million 2005 USD) in railroad damage occurring.
57 new+orleans In New Orleans, Lake Pontchartrain rose eight feet above, with much of the city being flooded in 1 to  of water. In  ,   rose  feet above, with much of the city being flooded in  to  of water.
58 new+orleans The city of New Orleans was inundated with 13.14 inches (335 mm) of rain. The city of   was inundated with  inches ( mm) of rain.
59 new+orleans Every building in the town of Abbeville, Louisiana, was destroyed. Every building in the town of , , was destroyed.
60 new+orleans There was severe flooding throughout Plaquemines Parish. There was severe flooding throughout  .
61 new+orleans The New Orleans area was hit harder than in the two prior storms to strike the Gulf Coast; the most densely populated areas were now located in the eastern semicircle of the storm, which is one of the most intense quadrants. The   area was hit harder than in the  prior storms to strike the  ; the most densely populated areas were  located in the eastern semicircle of the storm, which is  of the most intense quadrants.
62 new+orleans Residents in Plaquemines Parish, Louisiana reported the storm to be the worst wind event they had ever experienced. Residents in  ,  reported the storm to be the worst wind event they had ever experienced.
63 new+orleans Coinciding with the beginning of the annual season of sugar production, the storm laid to waste vast fields of sugar cane south and southwest of New Orleans and flattened many sheds used to store farming equipment. Coinciding with the beginning of the annual season of sugar production, the storm laid to waste vast fields of sugar cane south and southwest of   and flattened many sheds used to store farming equipment.
64 new+orleans Winds throughout the region of south-central Louisiana inflicted "unparallelled destruction", causing major structural damage. Winds throughout the region of south-central  inflicted "unparallelled destruction", causing major structural damage.
65 new+orleans It was reported to be nearly impossible to walk through the streets of the city at the height at the storm; the winds came with over  of rain. It was reported to be nearly impossible to walk through the streets of the city at the height at the storm; the winds came with over  of rain.
66 new+orleans Thirteen people died in the hurricane at New Orleans. people died in the hurricane at  .
67 new+orleans A five-story brick building succumbed to the force of the hurricane and crashed onto the city below; caught in its path were two other buildings. A five-story brick building succumbed to the force of the hurricane and crashed onto the city below; caught in its path were  other buildings.
68 new+orleans This particular incident killed two people. This particular incident killed  people.
69 new+orleans Many other buildings suffered damaged roofs and broken glass, and telegraph and police wires were brought down. Many other buildings suffered damaged roofs and broken glass, and telegraph and police wires were brought down.
70 new+orleans The easterly winds created a storm surge on Lake Pontchartrain and inundated eastern and northern areas of New Orleans. The easterly winds created a storm surge on   and inundated eastern and northern areas of  .
71 new+orleans The dynamics of the flood were considered "unprecedented", having come within  of the Mississippi River. The dynamics of the flood were considered "unprecedented", having come within  of the  .
72 new+orleans Flood waters rose until early on October 4, when they slowly began to recede. Flood waters rose until early on  , when they slowly began to recede.
73 new+orleans The Jackson Railroad, on the western and northwestern shore of the lake, was flooded up to a depth of , and  of track were washed out. The  , on the western and northwestern shore of the lake, was flooded up to a depth of , and  of track were washed out.
74 new+orleans Numerous families in residents near the railroad were forced to leave their homes and seek shelter upon the onset of rising waters. Numerous families in residents near the railroad were forced to leave their homes and seek shelter upon the onset of rising waters.
75 new+orleans Numerous coal boats and steamboats were swamped and sunk in and around Baton Rouge, which experienced its first severe hurricane strike in many years. Numerous coal boats and steamboats were swamped and sunk in and around  , which experienced its  severe hurricane strike in many .
76 new+orleans Countless trees were uprooted along the Mississippi, and crop damage continued its prevalence going further north. Countless trees were uprooted along the , and crop damage continued its prevalence going further north.
77 new+orleans Natchez saw the highest winds in the town since a tornado in 1840, and although the hurricane struck further west than the previous two, gale winds still extended eastward to Pensacola. saw the highest winds in the town since a tornado in , and although the hurricane struck further west than the previous , gale winds still extended eastward to .
78 new+orleans The first two hurricanes to strike the Gulf Coast—in August and September, respectively—caused significant inundation of low-lying and coastal communities, inflicting severe damage and killing dozens of people. The   hurricanes to strike the  —in  and , respectively—caused significant inundation of low-lying and coastal communities, inflicting severe damage and killing dozens of people.
79 new+orleans In some cases, flood waters were more than  deep, and the center of destruction shifted slightly with each storm. In some cases, flood waters were more than  deep, and the center of destruction shifted slightly with each storm.
80 new+orleans Sugar cane crops were destroyed by these two systems as well as the succeeding storm in early October. Sugar cane crops were destroyed by these  systems as well as the succeeding storm in  .
81 new+orleans Property and infrastructure suffered with all three events. Property and infrastructure suffered with all  events.
82 new+orleans With the third storm that made landfall, extreme winds blasted the city of New Orleans and surrounding areas. With the  storm that made landfall, extreme winds blasted the city of   and surrounding areas.
83 new+orleans All other storms remained away from land with no effects except on shipping. All other storms remained away from land with no effects except on shipping.
84 new+orleans Storm conditions battered New Orleans, Louisiana, on August 11, with winds of up to roughly  and heavy rainfall. Storm conditions battered  , , on  , with winds of up to roughly  and heavy rainfall.
85 new+orleans The hurricane wrought a great deal of damage throughout southeastern Louisiana. The hurricane wrought a great deal of damage throughout southeastern .
86 new+orleans At least 35 to 40 people drowned when a low-lying community at the eastern end of Lake Pontchartrain was inundated with flood waters up to a depth of , a result of intense and persistent winds generating a significant storm surge. At least  to  people drowned when a low-lying community at the eastern end of   was inundated with flood waters up to a depth of , a result of intense and persistent winds generating a significant storm surge.
87 new+orleans It was reported that in the town "there is hardly a house remaining". It was reported that in the town "there is hardly a house remaining".
88 new+orleans A railroad wharf near the lake was largely destroyed, and another settlement called Milneburg was flooded; residents were rescued by boat. A railroad wharf near the lake was largely destroyed, and another settlement called  was flooded; residents were rescued by boat.
89 new+orleans In Plaquemines Parish, where vast areas of land were left underwater, the hurricane was the most severe since 1812. In  , where vast areas of land were left underwater, the hurricane was the most severe since .
90 new+orleans At least 20 additional people drowned, although it was suspected that since up to 200 fishermen along the Mississippi River would have had extreme difficulty finding shelter amid the rapidly rising waters, the death toll was probably substantially higher. At least  additional people drowned, although it was suspected that since up to 0 fishermen along the   would have had extreme difficulty finding shelter amid the rapidly rising waters, the death toll was probably substantially higher.
91 new+orleans The storm flattened sugarcane fields across the parish: "the knowing ones will say that two thousand hogshead of sugar less will be made here", according to a post-storm account. The storm flattened sugarcane fields across the parish: "the knowing ones will say that   hogshead of sugar less will be made here", according to a post-storm account.
92 new+orleans Monetary losses from the destruction totaled over $250,000. Monetary losses from the destruction totaled over $250,000.
93 new+orleans Rice and corn crops were also ruined, and 300 head of cattle drowned in the flood on Cat Island. and corn crops were also ruined, and  head of cattle drowned in the flood on Cat Island.
94 new+orleans An article published in "The Times-Picayune" contrasted this hurricane with the cyclone of August, noting that the two storms were of similar intensity, and although the September system did not last as long in any one location, hydrology played a more significant role: "in August the swamps were nearly dry and the waters from the lake found a natural outlet; whereas, yesterday, the swamp being full, the water rose in the streets of Milneburgh and covered the railroad track for some distance." An article published in "The Times-Picayune" contrasted this hurricane with the cycl of , noting that the  storms were of similar intensity, and although the  system did not last as long in any  location, hydrology played a more significant role: "in  the swamps were nearly dry and the waters from the lake found a natural outlet; whereas, , the swamp being full, the water rose in the streets of  and covered the railroad track for some distance."
95 new+orleans In New Orleans proper, heavy rain and gusty winds were reported, but no flooding was observed. In   proper, heavy rain and gusty winds were reported, but no flooding was observed.
96 new+orleans The worst damage from the hurricane most likely occurred in Biloxi, where the coastline itself was altered by up to  and the lighthouse was swept out to sea. The worst damage from the hurricane most likely occurred in , where the coastline itself was altered by up to  and the lighthouse was swept out to sea.
97 new+orleans A hotel collapsed amid the disaster, killing at least one person, and loose debris covered the town. A hotel collapsed amid the disaster, killing at least  person, and loose debris covered the town.
98 new+orleans At East Pascagoula, Mississippi, the sea rose well beyond that of any storm in around 40 years, and nearby a wharf was totally destroyed. At  , , the sea rose well beyond that of any storm in around  , and nearby a wharf was totally destroyed.
99 new+orleans Initial estimates placed total damage in the area at $40,000. Initial estimates placed total damage in the area at $40,000.
100 new+orleans The storm was just as severe in Mobile, Alabama, and the majority of the $1 million in losses there was from lost cotton stored on flooded wharves. The storm was just as severe in Mobile, , and the majority of the $1 million in losses there was from lost cotton stored on flooded wharves.
101 new+orleans At Pascagoula, water reportedly rose  in 20 minutes. At , water reportedly rose  in  .
102 new+orleans The third and final hurricane known to have existed prior to reanalysis formed in the south-central Gulf of Mexico. The  and final hurricane known to have existed prior to reanalysis formed in the south-central Gulf of .
103 new+orleans Ludlum (1963) describes the storm along the Gulf Coast, but a reconstruction of its track further south, including its intensification, was made possible by ship reports. () describes the storm along the  , but a reconstruction of its track further south, including its intensification, was made possible by ship reports.
104 new+orleans In particular, a schooner along the coast of the Yucatán Peninsula encountered stormy conditions around September 30 with southeasterly winds and was driven northward through the Gulf. In particular, a schooner along the coast of the   encountered stormy conditions around   with southeasterly winds and was driven northward through the .
105 new+orleans The storm moved toward the north for a few days, reaching its peak with winds of  early on October 2. It likely made landfall on the Atchafalaya Basin around noon on October 2 before passing west of New Orleans, weakening to a tropical storm before moving into central Mississippi. The storm moved towrd the north for   dys, reching its pek with winds of  erly on  .It likely made landfall on the   around noon on   before passing west of  , weakening to a tropical storm before moving into central .
106 new+orleans Strong winds at New Orleans lasted more than 24 hours. Strong winds at   lasted    .
107 new+orleans The second known storm of the season was reported near Brownsville, Texas on June 30. The  known storm of the season was reported near ,  on  .
108 new+orleans Its existence is known based on a newspaper report in the New Orleans Times. Its existence is known based on a newspaper report in the   .
109 new+orleans The winds were estimated at 60 mph (95 km/h); however, it is a potentially unreliable estimate due to a lack of significant population providing observations. The winds were estimated at  mph ( km/h); however, it is a potentially unreliable estimate due to a lack of significant population providing observations.
110 new+orleans The entire track of the storm is unknown. The entire track of the storm is unknown.
111 new+orleans A ship sunk in the western Gulf of Mexico on October 1, which was the first indication of the second tropical cyclone of the season. A ship sunk in the western Gulf of  on  , which was the  indication of the  tropical cyclone of the season.
112 new+orleans The storm moved slowly northeastward toward the southeastern Louisiana coastline, intensifying to its estimated peak winds of 70 mph (115 km/h). The storm moved slowly northeastward toward the southeastern  coastline, intensifying to its estimated peak winds of  mph ( km/h).
113 new+orleans On October 4, it passed near or over southeastern Louisiana, producing heavy rain and gusty winds in New Orleans. On  , it passed near or over southeastern , producing heavy rain and gusty winds in  .
114 new+orleans Flooding was observed in portions of the city, and the West Rigolets Lighthouse on Lake Pontchartrain suffered $5,000 in damage due to the storm (1868 USD, $81,000 2010 USD). Flooding was observed in portions of the city, and the    on   suffered $5,000 in damage due to the storm ( USD, $81,000  USD).
115 new+orleans The storm accelerated northeastward and struck near Apalachicola, Florida late on October 4. The storm accelerated northeastward and struck near ,  late on  .
116 new+orleans On September 4, a hurricane was located in the northern Gulf of Mexico, moving north-northwestward. On  , a hurricane was located in the northern   , moving north-northwestward.
117 new+orleans The next day, it moved ashore in southeastern Louisiana with winds estimated at 80 mph (130 km/h), passing west of New Orleans. , it moved ashore in southeastern  with winds estimated at  mph ( km/h), passing west of  .
118 new+orleans It dissipated early on September 6. It dissipated early on  .
119 new+orleans The hurricane dropped heavy rainfall along its path that caused flooding. The hurricane dropped heavy rainfall along its path that caused flooding.
120 new+orleans In addition, strong winds uprooted trees and damaged fences. In addition, strong winds uprooted trees and damaged fences.
121 new+orleans High tides flooded Grand Isle with  of water. High tides flooded   with  of water.
122 new+orleans A tropical storm  was first sighted north of the Yucatan Peninsula on June 8.The storm moved northwest and then north, eventually hitting Houston, Texas. A tropical storm  was  sighted north of the   on  .The storm moved northwest and then north, eventually hitting , .
123 new+orleans The storm track was nearly identical to that of Tropical Storm One in terms of wind speed and point of landfall. The storm track was nearly identical to that of    in terms of wind speed and point of landfall.
124 new+orleans Many ships were wrecked and several houses and a church destroyed at Galveston. Many ships were wrecked and several houses and a church destroyed at .
125 new+orleans Rain from this cyclone aggravated the flooding in New Orleans caused by Tropical Storm One a week earlier. Rin from this cyclone ggrvted the flooding in   cused by      erlier.
126 new+orleans A strong,  tropical storm  was first observed south of Florida on June 1. A strong,  tropical storm  was  observed south of  on  .
127 new+orleans The storm traversed through the Gulf of Mexico before making landfall near Houston, Texas as a tropical storm on June 4, where a minimum pressure of 999 mbar was measured. The storm traversed through the Gulf of  before making landfall near ,  as a tropical storm on  , where a minimum pressure of  mbar was measured.
128 new+orleans A station in Galveston, Texas recorded  of rain during a 14 minute time span on June 4. A station in ,  recorded  of rain during a   time span on  .
129 new+orleans Galveston was partially flooded with some railroads and buildings washed away. was partially flooded with some railroads and buildings washed away.
130 new+orleans One vessel, the steamship "Alabama" was thrown ashore at Galveston,while another,the "Virginia Dare" grounded on an offshore sandbar there. vessel, the steamship "" was thrown ashore at ,while another,the "Virginia Dare" grounded on an offshore sandbar there.
131 new+orleans Extremely heavy rains associated with this cyclone also caused flooding in New Orleans. Extremely heavy rains associated with this cyclone also caused flooding in  .
132 new+orleans The New York Times,on June 6,reported that five hundred blocks of the city were submerged. The   ,on  ,reported that   blocks of the city were submerged.
133 new+orleans Eventually the storm dissipated in present-day Oklahoma. Eventually the storm dissipated in present-day .
134 new+orleans The Atlantic hurricane database (HURDAT) recognizes eight tropical cyclones for the 1871 season. The  hurricane database (HURDAT) recognizes  tropical cyclones for the  season.
135 new+orleans Two were tropical storms and six were hurricanes, with winds of 75 mph (119 km/h) or greater.Tropical Storm One travelled from south of Florida on June 1 to make landfall near Houston, Texas before dissipating further inland.The second tropical storm of the season also made landfall near Houston.Both storms caused considerable damage in Galveston and brought flooding to New Orleans.The third cyclone of the season, and the first hurricane, travelled west from the Bahamas to make landfall in central Florida.It passed through Florida, Georgia and South Carolina and out into the Atlantic.There it looped back and made landfall in Georgia as a tropical storm.Hurricane Four, the second hurricane of the season, started as a tropical storm west of Cape Verde.It crossed the Atlantic to make landfall, first in the Lesser Antilles,then in the Bahamas and then Florida before crossing the Florida peninsula into the Atlantic.Hurricane Five was a category 2 hurricane,active between August 30 and September 2, that did not make landfall anywhere.Hurricane Six was a category one hurricane that travelled from the Gulf of Mexico across Florida between September 5 and September 8.Hurricane Seven developed from a tropical storm, which was first seen in the Bay of Campeche on September 30.It strengthed to a category 1 hurricane as it travelled off the Texas coast but weakened back to a tropical storm before crossing the Florida peninsula.This cyclone was responsible for numerous shipwrecks.Hurricane Eight, the last cyclone of the season was first seen as a category 1 hurricane on October 10, north-east of the British Virgin Islands.The hurricane travelled as far north as Nova Scotia before dissipating on October 13. were tropical storms and  were hurricanes, with winds   mph ( km/h) or greater.Tropical Storm  travelled from south   on   to make landfall near ,  before dissipating further inland.The  tropical storm  the season also made landfall near .Both storms caused considerable damage in  and brought flooding to New Orleans.The  cycl  the season, and the  hurricane, travelled west from the  to make landfall in central .It passed through ,  and   and out into the .There it looped back and made landfall in  as a tropical storm.Hurricane , the  hurricane  the season, started as a tropical storm west   Verde.It crossed the  to make landfall,  in the Lesser Antilles,then in the  and then  before crossing the  peninsula into the .Hurricane  was a category  hurricane,active between   and  , that did not make landfall anywhere.Hurricane  was a category  hurricane that travelled from the    across  between   and  .Hurricane  developed from a tropical storm, which was  seen in the Bay of  on  .It strengthed to a category  hurricane as it travelled off the  coast but weakened back to a tropical storm before crossing the  peninsula.This cyclone was responsible for numerous shipwrecks.Hurricane , the last cyclone of the season was  seen as a category  hurricane on  0, north-east of the British Virgin Islands.The hurricane travelled as far north as   before dissipating on  3.
136 new+orleans A tropical storm was first detected near the Bahamas on August 14. A tropical storm was  detected near the  on  .
137 new+orleans As it neared the coast of Florida, it strengthened to a Category 3 hurricane, but weakened over land. As it neared the coast of , it strengthened to a Category  hurricane, but weakened over land.
138 new+orleans Once over the Gulf of Mexico, it agained strengthened, this time to a Category 2. It made landfall on Louisiana on the 19th, causing storm surge and heavy rain, New Orleans itself receiving nearly a foot of rain. over the   , it agained strengthened, this time to a Category .It made landfall on  on the , causing storm surge and heavy rain,   itself receiving nearly a foot of rain.
139 new+orleans The storm recurved over the Ohio Valley and brought more rain, this time to the mid-Atlantic region where it caused 3 deaths. The storm recurved over the   and brought more rain, this time to the  region where it caused  deaths.
140 new+orleans In all, this storm caused $2.7 million in damage. In all, this storm caused $2.7 million in damage.
141 new+orleans On September 8, the 4th tropical storm formed in the southwestern Gulf of Mexico northwest of Campeche. On  , the  tropical storm formed in the southwestern    northwest  .
142 new+orleans After tracking to the northeast, it made landfalls near New Orleans and near the Louisiana-Mississippi state lines as a 60 mph tropical storm. After tracking to the northeast, it made landfalls near   and near the  state lines as a  mph tropical storm.
143 new+orleans On September 13 the storm became extratropical over Tennessee, and lost its identity on September 17 near Greenland. On   the storm became extratropical over , and lost its identity on   near .
144 new+orleans The season's fourth storm had an unusual origin southwest of the Azores Islands on August 2. The season's  storm had an unusual origin southwest of the   on  .
145 new+orleans It moved west-southwestward for six days before reaching tropical storm strength near the Bahamas. It moved west-southwestward for   before reaching tropical storm strength near the .
146 new+orleans It hit near West Palm Beach on August 10, crossed South Florida. It hit near    on  , crossed  .
147 new+orleans It hit Grand Isle, Louisiana on August 14, producing levee breeches which flooded New Orleans, and destroyed every building in Port Eads, Louisiana other than the lighthouse. It hit  ,  on  , producing levee breeches which flooded  , and destroyed every building in Port Eads,  other than the lighthouse.
148 new+orleans It hit near Gulfport, Mississippi on August 16, after causing 10 deaths and over $1 million in damage (1901 USD). It hit near ,  on  , after causing  deaths and over $1 million in damage ( USD).
149 new+orleans The hurricane caused severe damage along the Gulf Coast. The hurricane caused severe damage along the Gulf Coast.
150 new+orleans Many marine vessels were blown ashore or sunken in Pensacola, and railroads in the city were severely damaged. Many marine vessels were blown ashore or sunken in , and railroads in the city were severely damaged.
151 new+orleans Numerous wharfs were damaged or destroyed, and many roofs were torn off buildings. Numerous wharfs were damaged or destroyed, and many roofs were torn off buildings.
152 new+orleans Three forts in the vicinity of Pensacola suffered damage. forts in the vicinity of  suffered damage.
153 new+orleans Electricity in the city was shut off. Electricity in the city was shut off.
154 new+orleans A total of 35 people were killed in Pensacola. A total of  people were killed in .
155 new+orleans Mobile and surrounding areas suffered similar damage, including destroyed timber, smashed windows, and sunken watercraft. Mobile and surrounding areas suffered similar damage, including destroyed timber, smashed windows, and sunken watercraft.
156 new+orleans In Mississippi, over 300,000 cotton bales were ruined during the hurricane, amounting to $12,000,000 in damage. In , over  cotton bales were ruined during the hurricane, amounting to $12,000,000 in damage.
157 new+orleans Damage in New Orleans was minimal; however, Lake Pontchartrain overflowed, flooding the city. Damage in   was minimal; however,   overflowed, flooding the city.
158 new+orleans The hurricane killed a total of 134 people. The hurricane killed a total of  people.
159 new+orleans In New Orleans, observations at the backwater of the Mississippi River indicated a storm surge of about  in height on the morning of September 27. In  , observations at the backwater of the   indicated a storm surge of about  in height on the morning of  .
160 new+orleans The highest sustained winds recorded during the storm in New Orleans were measured at 49 mph (79 km/h), while the minimum pressure recorded was 987 mbar (hPa; 29.15 inHg). The highest sustained winds recorded during the storm in   were measured at  mph ( km/h), while the minimum pressure recorded was  mbar (hPa;  inHg).
161 new+orleans In the town of Burrwood, a wharf was impacted by the hurricane's storm surge. In the town of , a wharf was impacted by the hurricane's storm surge.
162 new+orleans In addition, local crops and railroads suffered severe damage. In addition, local crops and railroads suffered severe damage.
163 new+orleans Lake Pontchartrain overflowed during the hurricane, with its waters  above normal levels, flooding New Orleans. overflowed during the hurricane, with its waters  above normal levels, flooding  .
164 new+orleans Telegraph wires were down in New Orleans after the hurricane, resulting in the loss of contact with the city. Telegraph wires were down in   after the hurricane, resulting in the loss of contact with the city.
165 new+orleans Chimneys were blown down in the city; and a resort along Lake Pontchartrain was underwater, and many houses were swept away near the hotel. Chimneys were blown down in the city; and a resort along   was underwater, and many houses were swept away near the hotel.
166 new+orleans Telephone service in New Orleans went down during the hurricane. Telephone service in   went down during the hurricane.
167 new+orleans It was reported that Fort St. Philip was flooded by boaters along the Mississippi River. It was reported that    was flooded by boaters along the  .
168 new+orleans The hurricane set a new 24-hour-record for rainfall at Colliston, where rainfall amounted to  accumulated during the hurricane. The hurricane set a new  for rainfall at , where rainfall amounted to  accumulated during the hurricane.
169 new+orleans In New Orleans, the storm caused substantial damage, with many homes destroyed and ships wrecked. In  , the storm caused substantial damage, with many homes destroyed and ships wrecked.
170 new+orleans Communication with the city was completely lost after most of the telegraph wires were downed. Communication with the city was completely lost after most of the telegraph wires were downed.
171 new+orleans Around 3:00 pm on September 21, advisories from the New Orleans Weather Bureau ceased, leading to concerns over the state of the city. Around 3:00 pm on  , advisories from the     ceased, leading to concerns over the state of the city.
172 new+orleans Prior to the communication loss, the Weather Bureau reported that waves along the Mississippi River banks were surpassing  and water rise in New Orleans itself could reach unprecedented levels. Prior to the communication loss, the   reported that waves along the   banks were surpassing  and water rise in   itself could reach unprecedented levels.
173 new+orleans Several lakes overflowed their banks as water from the Mississippi River back-flowed into them, flooding nearby lowlands. Several lakes overflowed their banks as water from the   back-flowed into them, flooding nearby lowlands.
174 new+orleans The resulting floods, which inundated areas with upwards of  of water, were similar in scale to the flooding caused by Hurricane Katrina in 2005, nearly 100 years later. The resulting floods which inundated areas with upwards of  of water were similar in scale to the flooding caused by Hurricane  in     .
175 new+orleans However, due to the lack of residential buildings in the area at the time, the flooding caused far less destruction than that of Katrina. However, due to the lack of residential buildings in the area at the time, the flooding caused far less destruction than that of Katrina.
176 new+orleans A report falsely claimed that the city's French Quarter was  "swept away". A report falsely claimed that the city's  Quarter was  "swept away".
177 new+orleans A total of 306 coal barges sank off the coast of New Orleans and Lobdel, incurring over $1 million in losses. A total of  coal barges sank off the coast of   and , incurring over $1 million in losses.
178 new+orleans Nearly every sugar cane plantation between New Orleans and Baton Rouge sustained damage, resulting in at least $1 million in loses. Nearly every sugar cane plantation between   and   sustained damage, resulting in at least $1 million in loses.
179 new+orleans A barometric reading of 951 mbar (28.11 inHg) was at the time the lowest ever measured on land in the United States. A barometric reading of  mbar ( inHg) was at the time the lowest ever measured on land in the  .
180 new+orleans The storm caused severe flooding and killed 275 people, a number possibly reduced to well-executed warnings. The storm caused severe flooding and killed  people, a number possibly reduced to well-executed warnings.
181 new+orleans Winds tore off roofs and damaged buildings in New Orleans, where pressure was measured at down to 28.01" and a wind speed of 98 mph. Winds tore off roofs and damaged buildings in  , where pressure was measured at down to " and a wind speed of  mph.
182 new+orleans Generations in south east Louisiana would refer to it as the Great Storm of 1915. Generations in south east  would refer to it as the Great Storm of .
183 new+orleans Property damage in Louisiana was estimated at $13 million (1915 USD, $239 million in 2005 USD), with $5 million of that in the city of New Orleans. Property damage in  was estimated at $13 million ( USD, $239 million in  USD), with $5 million of that in the city of  .
184 new+orleans The "New Orleans Hurricane of 1915" was an intense Category 4 hurricane that made landfall near Grand Isle, Louisiana during the 1915 Atlantic hurricane season. The "  Hurricane of " was an intense Category  hurricane that made landfall near  ,  during the   hurricane season.
185 new+orleans The hurricane killed 275 people and caused $13 million (1915 US dollars) in damage. The hurricane killed  people and caused $13 million (  dollars) in damage.
186 new+orleans In New Orleans winds of  reached the city at 7am, climbing to  an hour over the next 5 hours. In   winds of  reached  city at 7am, climbing to    over    s.
187 new+orleans Hurricane conditions were experienced from the afternoon into the night, with steady winds of  and gusts up to . Hurricane conditions were experienced from the afternoon into the night, with steady winds of  and gusts up to .
188 new+orleans There were reports of damage in New Orleans, with roofs blown off buildings and the Presbytère on Jackson Square losing its cupola. There were reports of damage in  , with roofs blown off buildings and the   Jacks  losing its cupola.
189 new+orleans The clock on St. Louis Cathedral stopped at 5:50pm, the height of the storm. The clock on    stopped at 5:50pm, the height of the storm.
190 new+orleans The hurricane damaged the Times-Picayune building, hampering  newspaper production. The hurricane damaged the Times-Picayune building, hampering  newspaper production.
191 new+orleans More church steeples in the city were blown down or significantly damaged than remained intact. More church steeples in the city were blown down or significantly damaged than remained intact.
192 new+orleans On September 21, the U.S. Weather Bureau issued advisories because of strong swells in the Leeward Islands, indicating the presence of a tropical disturbance. On  , the    issued advisories because of strong swells in the  , indicating the presence of a tropical disturbance.
193 new+orleans On September 23, northeast storm warnings were issued for the Florida coast from West Palm Beach to Boca Grande. On  , northeast storm warnings were issued for the  coast from    to  .
194 new+orleans On September 25, the Weather Bureau advised marine traffic to remain alert in the Gulf of Mexico, noting that the intensity of the storm was unknown. On  , the   advised marine traffic to remain alert in the   , noting that the intensity  the storm was unknown.
195 new+orleans Later, hurricane warnings were issued from Apalachicola, Florida to Mobile on September 25. Later, hurricane warnings were issued from ,  to Mobile on  .
196 new+orleans Warnings were also released from Pascagoula, Mississippi to New Orleans on September 26. Warnings were also released from ,  to   on  .
197 new+orleans The warnings were briefly discontinued because of track uncertainties, but they were re-issued when the cyclone began to curve northeast. The warnings were briefly discontinued because of track uncertainties, but they were re-issued when the cyclone began to curve northeast.
198 new+orleans On September 27 and 28, scheduled vessel trips were cancelled in New Orleans. On   and , scheduled vessel trips were cancelled in  .
199 new+orleans Marine traffic resumed after the storm passed east of the city. Marine traffic resumed after the storm passed east of the city.
200 new+orleans The storm struck the Gulf Coast later than anticipated because of slow forward motion. The storm struck the Gulf Coast later than anticipated because of slow forward motion.
201 new+orleans In the Gulf of Mexico, the cyclone turned north on September 26, and it slowly weakened. In the   , the cyclone turned north on  , and it slowly weakened.
202 new+orleans It passed 110 miles (180 km/h) southeast of New Orleans with 120 mph (195 km/h) winds on September 28. It passed  miles ( km/h) southeast of   with  mph ( km/h) winds on  .
203 new+orleans Early on September 29, the hurricane made landfall near Fort Walton Beach as a marginal Category 3 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale. Early on  , the hurricane made landfall near    as a marginal Category  hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
204 new+orleans Originally, the Atlantic hurricane database listed the storm as a 100 mph (160 km/h) hurricane over northwest Florida. Originally, the  hurricane database listed the storm as a  mph ( km/h) hurricane over  .
205 new+orleans It quickly weakened to a tropical storm over southeastern Alabama, and it merged with an extratropical frontal system in southern Georgia on September 30. It quickly weakened to a tropical storm over southeastern , and it merged with an extratropical frontal system in southern  on  .
206 new+orleans At 10 a.m. on September 8, northeast storm warnings were hoisted for the Florida coast between Jupiter and Key West. At 10 a.m. on  , northeast storm warnings were hoisted for the  coast between Jupiter and Key West.
207 new+orleans By 1 p.m., the storm warnings were changed to hurricane warnings. By 1 p.m., the storm warnings were changed to hurricane warnings.
208 new+orleans At 2 p.m., northeast storm warnings went up for the Tampa Bay area. At 2 p.m., northeast storm warnings went up for the   area.
209 new+orleans On September 9, the hurricane warnings were changed back to northeast storm warnings, which were extended along the west coast of Florida northward from Key West to Tampa. On  , the hurricane warnings were changed back to northeast storm warnings, which were extended along the west coast of  northward from Key West to .
210 new+orleans On the 10th at 10:30 p.m., northeast storm warnings were issued from Carrabelle, Florida to New Orleans, Louisiana. On the  at 10:30 p.m., northeast storm warnings were issued from ,  to  , .
211 new+orleans On the 11th at 4 p.m., the storm warnings for the northeast Gulf coast were changed to hurricane warnings, and extended westward along the length of the Louisiana coast. On the  at 4 p.m., the storm warnings for the northeast Gulf coast were changed to hurricane warnings, and extended westward along the length of the  coast.
212 new+orleans At 9 p.m., northwest storm warnings were issued for the northwest Gulf coast from Port Arthur to Velasco, Texas. At 9 p.m., northwest storm warnings were issued for the northwest Gulf coast from   to , .
213 new+orleans At 4 p.m. on the 12th, storm warnings were in effect from Mobile, Alabama to Pensacola, Florida, with hurricane warnings in effect along the Mississippi and Louisiana coasts. At 4 p.m. on the , storm warnings were in effect from Mobile,  to , , with hurricane warnings in effect along the  and  coasts.
214 new+orleans On the evening of the 13th, northwest storm warnings were in effect for the entire Texas coast. On the evening of the , northwest storm warnings were in effect for the entire  coast.
215 new+orleans Advisories were issued early on August 12 from the U.S. Weather Bureau in New Orleans for the system as it neared Mexico shortly before making landfall, but little damage and no deaths were reported in Mexico. Advisories were issued early on   from the    in   for the system as it neared  shortly before making landfall, but little damage and no deaths were reported in .
216 new+orleans Although advisories were issued for Mexico on August 29 and early on August 30 from the U.S. Weather Bureau in New Orleans, little overall damage was reported in mainland Mexico. Although advisories were issued for  on   and early on   from the    in  , little overall damage was reported in mainland .
217 new+orleans An area of disturbed weather over Central America organized into a tropical storm in the Bay of Campeche on September 23. An area of disturbed weather over   organized into a tropical storm in the Bay of  on  .
218 new+orleans Uneventfully, it moved generally north-northeastward through the Gulf of Mexico and its winds strengthened to a peak of . Uneventfully, it moved generally north-northeastward through the    and its winds strengthened to a peak  .
219 new+orleans The storm made landfall on south-central Louisiana on September 26, and dissipated later that day. The storm made landfall on south-central  on  , and dissipated later that .
220 new+orleans The Weather Bureau office in New Orleans posted numerous advisories, although the effects from the storm were minimal. The Weather Bureau office in   posted numerous advisories, although the effects from the storm were minimal.
221 new+orleans On September 18, the hurricane entered the Gulf of Mexico and threatened the Florida Panhandle, but later its track moved farther west than expected, ultimately leading to a landfall southeast of New Orleans, Louisiana. On  , the hurricane entered the    and threatened the  , but later its track moved farther west than expected, ultimately leading to a landfall southeast   , .
222 new+orleans Upon making landfall, the storm killed 34 people on the Gulf Coast of the United States and produced a storm tide as high as , flooding millions of square miles and destroying thousands of homes. Upon making landfall, the storm killed  people on the Gulf Coast of the   and produced a storm tide as high as , flooding millions of square miles and destroying thousands of homes.
223 new+orleans The storm was the first major hurricane to test Greater New Orleans since 1915, and the widespread flooding that resulted spurred flood-protection legislature and an enlarged levee system to safeguard the flood-prone area. The storm was the  major hurricane to test Greater   since , and the widespread flooding that resulted spurred flood-protection legislature and an enlarged levee system to safeguard the flood-prone area.
224 new+orleans In all, the powerful storm killed 51 people and caused $110 million (1947 US$) in damage. In all, the powerful storm killed  people and caused $110 million ( US$) in damage.
225 new+orleans It remains one of only four hurricanes to strike the United States with maximum sustained winds of at least 155 mph (250 km/h). It remains  of only  hurricanes to strike the   with maximum sustained winds of at least  mph ( km/h).
226 new+orleans As the hurricane entered the Gulf of Mexico, initial forecasts expected the storm to strike between Apalachicola and Pensacola, Florida, but by 0415 UTC on September 19, hurricane warnings were issued by the Weather Bureau office in New Orleans covering Saint Marks ("Spanish:" San Marcos), Florida, to Morgan City, Louisiana. As the hurricane entered the   , initial forecasts expected the storm to strike between  and , , but by  UTC on  , hurricane warnings were issued by the   fice in   covering Saint Marks (":"  ), , to  , .
227 new+orleans As the storm neared Louisiana, Emile Verret, the acting governor of Baton Rouge, closed the state capital and sent public officials home. As the storm neared ,  , the acting governor of  , closed the state capital and sent public officials home.
228 new+orleans In New Orleans, local National Guard units were mobilized. In  , local   units were mobilized.
229 new+orleans The storm is most commonly called the 1947 Fort Lauderdale hurricane but is sometimes referred to as "Hurricane George," the "1947 New Orleans hurricane," or the "1947 Pompano Beach (or Broward) hurricane." The storm is most commonly called the    hurricane but is sometimes referred to as "Hurricane George," the "   hurricane," or the "   (or ) hurricane."
230 new+orleans If this same storm were to hit today it would probably do around $11.72 billion (2004 US$) in damages. If this same storm were to hit  it would probably do around $11.72 billion (2004 US$) in damages.
231 new+orleans Once over water, the hurricane had diminished to about 90 mph (145 km/h); though no further reconnaissance missions were dispatched to estimate its intensity over the Gulf of Mexico,  it is believed to have begun reintensifying as it turned west-northwest and its forward motion increased to 15 mph (25 km/h). over water, the hurricane had diminished to about  mph ( km/h); though no further reconnaissance missions were dispatched to estimate its intensity over the   ,  it is believed to have begun reintensifying as it turned west-northwest and its forward motion increased to  mph ( km/h).
232 new+orleans On September 19, the hurricane moved ashore over Saint Bernard Parish, Louisiana, as a major hurricane with sustained winds of at least . On  , the hurricane moved ashore over Saint  , , as a major hurricane with sustained winds of at least .
233 new+orleans The hurricane quickly weakened as it moved over the New Orleans metropolitan area, although its strong winds gusted to 125 mph (175 km/h) in New Orleans, Louisiana. The hurricane quickly weakened as it moved over the   metropolitan area, although its strong winds gusted to  mph ( km/h) in  , .
234 new+orleans The eye passed over Baton Rouge, the state capital, between 2000 and 2020 UTC, with anemometers registering sustained winds of  at 2045 UTC. The eye passed over  , the state capital, between    UTC, with anemometers registering sustained winds of  at  UTC.
235 new+orleans On September 20, the storm rapidly weakened to a tropical depression over northeastern Texas, but the remnant circulation turned northeast over southeastern Oklahoma and northwest Arkansas. On  , the storm rapidly weakened to a tropical depression over northeastern , but the remnant circulation turned northeast over southeastern  and northwest .
236 new+orleans On September 21, it dissipated over southern Missouri. On  , it dissipated over southern .
237 new+orleans A storm tide of up to  was reported along the western half of the Mississippi coastline,  causing heavy damage in Bay St. Louis, Gulfport, and Biloxi. A storm tide of up to  was reported along the western half of the  coastline,  causing heavy damage in   , , and .
238 new+orleans The recorded tides in these communities were the highest ever recorded until Hurricane Camille, a Category 5 hurricane in 1969 and the strongest hurricane to strike the United States with sustained winds of , produced tides of up to . The recorded tides in these communities were the highest ever recorded until Hurricane Camille, a Category  hurricane in  and the strongest hurricane to strike the   with sustained winds of , produced tides of up to .
239 new+orleans Although the storm had weakened by its second landfall, the hydrology of the region makes it particularly vulnerable to hurricanes. Although the storm had weakened by its  landfall, the hydrology of the region makes it particularly vulnerable to hurricanes.
240 new+orleans 12 people were killed in Louisiana and 22 in Mississippi. people were killed in  and  in .
241 new+orleans In both states combined, the Red Cross reported that the storm destroyed 1,647 homes and damaged 25,000 others, with the majority, up to 90%, of the destroyed having been due to water. In both states combined, the   reported that the storm destroyed  homes and damaged  others, with the majority, up to 90%, of the destroyed having been due to water.
242 new+orleans In New Orleans, the storm produced an estimated 1947 USD$100,000,000 worth of damage to the city. In  , the storm produced an estimated  USD$ worth of damage to the city.
243 new+orleans Barometric pressures as low as 971.6 mb (28.69 inHg) and sustained winds as high as , equivalent to Category 2 intensity, were reported as far inland as Baton Rouge. Barometric pressures as low as  mb ( inHg) and sustained winds as high as , equivalent to Category  intensity, were reported as far inland as  .
244 new+orleans A large part of Greater New Orleans was flooded, with  of water shutting down Moisant Field and  of water in parts of Jefferson Parish. A large part of Greater   was flooded, with  of water shutting down   and  of water in parts of  .
245 new+orleans The storm surge in Louisiana peaked at – at Shell Beach on Lake Borgne—today submerged due to erosion from the construction in 1968 of the Mississippi River Gulf Outlet—and at  in Ostrica. The storm surge in  peaked at – at   on  — submerged due to erosion from the construction in  of the    —and at  in .
246 new+orleans The surge overtopped the 9-ft-tall (2.7-m) Orleans Parish seawall, built by the Orleans Levee Board in the 1920s to prevent a repeat of the 1915 hurricane there, and spread water over  of the parish, as far from Lake Pontchartrain as Gentilly Ridge. The surge overtopped  9-ft-tall (2.7-m)   seawall, built by     in   to prevent a repeat of   hurricane re, and spread water over  of  parish, as far from   as  .
247 new+orleans In Jefferson Parish,  were flooded for as long as two weeks. In  ,  were flooded for as long as  .
248 new+orleans Subsidence settled behind the levees, leaving “topographic bowls” containing up to  of water, to be excavated by dredging and pumping the water back into Lake Pontchartrain. Subsidence settled behind the levees, leaving “topographic bowls” containing up to  of water, to be excavated by dredging and pumping the water back into  .
249 new+orleans Saint Bernard and Plaquemines parishes were also inundated by an 11-ft (3.4-m) storm surge, though mainly sparsely populated areas were affected. Saint  and  parishes were also inundated by an 11-ft (3.4-m) storm surge, though mainly sparsely populated areas were affected.
250 new+orleans The center of the storm, estimated at the time to have been  wide,  passed directly over the business district of New Orleans between 1530 and 1700 UTC,  making the storm the first major hurricane to pass over the city since 1915; no other storm would pass so close to downtown New Orleans until Hurricane Katrina in 2005. The center of the storm, estimated at the time to have been  wide,  passed directly over the business district of   between    UTC,  making the storm the  major hurricane to pass over the city since ; no other storm would pass so close to downtown   until Hurricane  in .
251 new+orleans Before the eye arrived, wind instruments at Moisant Airport were disabled after just having registered sustained winds of . Before the eye arrived, wind instruments at   were disabled after just having registered sustained winds of .
252 new+orleans Due to the increasing northerly winds, water overtopped sections of the levees on Lake Pontchartrain, leaving some lakefront streets submerged “waist deep,” above the 3-ft (0.92-m) delimiter. Due to the increasing northerly winds, water overtopped sections of the levees on  , leaving some lakefront streets submerged “waist deep,” above the 3-ft (0.92-m) delimiter.
253 new+orleans As communications failed during the calm eye, the Weather Bureau office in Fort Worth, Texas, assumed the duties of the New Orleans office by broadcasting advisories to the public. As communications failed during the calm eye, the   office in  , , assumed the duties of the   office by broadcasting advisories to the public.
254 new+orleans During the eye, atmospheric pressure in New Orleans dropped as low as 968.9 mb (28.61 inHg) by 1649 UTC. During the eye, atmospheric pressure in   dropped as low as  mb ( inHg) by  UTC.
255 new+orleans On September 4, the U.S. Weather Bureau advised residents that the storm was expected to strike land between Morgan City and Grand Isle around midnight, as its forward motion had increased to . On  , the    advised residents that the storm was expected to strike land between   and   around midnight, as its forward motion had increased to .
256 new+orleans The weather service also noted that abnormally high tides were expected from the Mississippi River to Pensacola, as the center was predicted to pass east of New Orleans and move to the west of Biloxi shortly before dawn. The weather service also noted that abnormally high tides were expected from the   to , as the center was predicted to pass east of   and move to the west of  shortly before dawn.
257 new+orleans 1,000 people left their homes in Terrebonne Parish and took shelter in a courthouse and school buildings in Houma. people left their homes in   and took shelter in a courthouse and school buildings in .
258 new+orleans As winds increased, city officials in New Orleans ordered 2,000 people to evacuate from a wartime housing project into an auditorium for shelter. As winds increased, city officials in   ordered  people to evacuate from a wartime housing project into an auditorium for shelter.
259 new+orleans The hurricane produced gusts of  at Moisant Airport, and tides ranged from 6 to  along the coast from Mississippi to the Florida Panhandle. The hurricane produced gusts of  at  , and tides ranged from  to  along the coast from  to the  .
260 new+orleans The maximum tide reached  in New Orleans, and winds caused damage to small boats, trees, and power and communication lines. The maximum tide reached  in  , and winds caused damage to small boats, trees, and power and communication lines.
261 new+orleans At Grand Isle, the heaviest damage occurred to oil rigs and drilling equipment from high tides. At  , the heaviest damage occurred to oil rigs and drilling equipment from high tides.
262 new+orleans Total damage in the United States reached $900,000, but no loss of life was reported. Total damage in the   reached $900,000, but no loss of life was reported.
263 new+orleans The strongest storms of the season attained Category 4 intensity; two of the major hurricanes formed in the western Caribbean Sea and affected the United States in late September and October. The strongest storms of the season attained Category  intensity;  of the major hurricanes formed in the western   and affected the   in   and .
264 new+orleans A minimal hurricane struck southern Louisiana, causing tides of five feet and winds of  in New Orleans. A minimal hurricane struck southern , causing tides of  feet and winds of  in  .
265 new+orleans A minimal tropical storm made landfall near Destin in July. A minimal tropical storm made landfall near  in .
266 new+orleans An intense hurricane attained Category 4 strength and produced extensive damage and  wind gusts on Bermuda in mid-September. An intense hurricane attained Category  strength and produced extensive damage and  wind gusts on  in .
267 new+orleans A Category 3 hurricane struck the southern portion of Florida, resulting in $12 million of damages in the state. A Category  hurricane struck the southern portion of , resulting in $12 million of damages in the state.
268 new+orleans After the passage of one week, another hurricane affected the region as a Category 3 storm, after crossing Cuba with winds of . After the passage of  , another hurricane affected the region as a Category  storm, after crossing  with winds of .
269 new+orleans Only three direct fatalities occurred in the United States, largely because of improved evacuations and adherence to warnings and advisories. Only  direct fatalities occurred in the  , largely because of improved evacuations and adherence to warnings and advisories.
270 new+orleans On July 27, a tropical depression developed in the northern Gulf of Mexico, about 100 mi (160 km) south of Grand Isle, Louisiana. On  , a tropical depression developed in the northern   , about  mi ( km) south   , .
271 new+orleans A map of the low pressure areas forming in July 1954 indicated that the system originated near the Mississippi Delta and tracked southward. A map of the low pressure areas forming in   indicated that the system originated near the   and tracked southward.
272 new+orleans After forming, the depression tracked northwestward, intensifying into Tropical Storm Barbara early on July 28. After forming, the depression tracked northwestward, intensifying into Tropical Storm  early on  .
273 new+orleans Maximum sustained winds reached 45 mph (75 km/h), although a tanker offshore named the "Henry M. Dawes" reported wind gusts of . Maximum sustained winds reached  mph ( km/h), although a tanker offshore named the "  " reported wind gusts of .
274 new+orleans Officials at the United States Weather Bureau posted a storm warning from Cameron to Burrwood, Louisiana, and also advised small craft to remain at port along the entire northern Gulf Coast. Officials at the     posted a storm warning from  to , , and also advised small craft to remain at port along the entire northern  .
275 new+orleans Without intensifying further, Barbara made landfall near Vermilion Bay, Louisiana on July 29, dissipating the next day over Texas. Without intensifying furr,  made landfall near  ,  on  , dissipating    over .
276 new+orleans The storm dropped heavy rainfall along its path, including over  in New Orleans. The storm dropped heavy rainfall along its path, including over  in  .
277 new+orleans The rains caused flooding as well as some damage to the rice crop. The rains caused flooding as well as some damage to the rice crop.
278 new+orleans However, the Monthly Weather Review yearly summary described the precipitation as "far more beneficial than damaging". However, the Monthly Weather Review yearly summary described the precipitation as "far more beneficial than damaging".
279 new+orleans There was no wind damage. There was no wind damage.
280 new+orleans Tropical Storm Brenda developed in the north-central Gulf of Mexico at 1800 UTC on July 31, with initial winds of 60 mph (95 km/h). Tropical Storm  developed in the north-central    at  UTC on  , with initial winds   mph ( km/h).
281 new+orleans During the next 12 hours, the storm strengthened slightly and attained its maximum sustain wind speed of 70 mph (110 km/h) early on August 1. During    ,  storm strengned slightly and attained its maximum sustain wind speed of  mph ( km/h) early on  .
282 new+orleans Later that day, Brenda made landfall east of New Orleans, Louisiana at the same intensity. Later that ,  made landfall east of  ,  at the same intensity.
283 new+orleans The storm steadily weakened inland and by August 2, it was downgraded to a tropical depression. The storm steadily weakened inland and by  , it was downgraded to a tropical depression.
284 new+orleans Early on August 3, Brenda dissipated while located over eastern Texas. Early on  ,  dissipated while located over eastern .
285 new+orleans A tropical storm formed just west of Jamaica on August 23, likely from a tropical wave. A tropical storm formed just west of  on  , likely from a tropical wave.
286 new+orleans It moved northwestward, crossed the western tip of Cuba, and hit southeastern Louisiana near New Orleans on August 27. It moved northwestward, crossed the western tip of , and hit southeastern  near   on  .
287 new+orleans The storm dissipated three days later over Missouri, and caused little damage. The storm dissipated    over , and caused little damage.
288 new+orleans Flossy was the only hurricane of the season to strike the United States. Flossy was the only hurricane of the season to strike the  .
289 new+orleans Winds in Louisiana reached , although an oil rig offshore Grand Isle reported a gust of . Winds in  reached , although an oil rig offshore   reported a gust of .
290 new+orleans The storm dropped heavy rainfall along its path, peaking at  in Golden Meadow, Louisiana. The storm dropped heavy rainfall along its path, peaking at  in  , .
291 new+orleans The rainfall and the hurricane's accompanying storm surge caused widespread flooding and beach erosion in southeast Louisiana. The rainfall and the hurricane's accompanying storm surge caused widespread flooding and beach erosion in southeast .
292 new+orleans The flooding overtopped the eastern seawall in New Orleans, submerging an area of . The flooding overtopped the eastern seawall in  , submerging an area of .
293 new+orleans Across the region, the resulting flooding drowned cattle and caused heavy crop damage. Across the region, the resulting flooding drowned cattle and caused heavy crop damage.
294 new+orleans Hurricane Flossy left about $27.8 million in damage (1956 USD), mostly from crop damage, as well as 15 deaths. Hurricane Flossy left about $27.8 million in damage ( USD), mostly from crop damage, as well as  deaths.
295 new+orleans The rainfall extended through the Mid-Atlantic states, which alleviated drought conditions. The rainfall extended through the  states, which alleviated drought conditions.
296 new+orleans Hurricane Betsy moved across the Atlantic, executing two loops before moving across south Florida and hitting Louisiana on September 9, 1965 as a Category 4 hurricane. Hurricane  moved across the  executing  loops before moving across south  and hitting  on   165 as a Category  hurricane.
297 new+orleans The eye passed to the southwest of New Orleans, though the eyewall covered much of southeast Louisiana for an eight-hour period. The eye passed to the southwest of  , though the eyewall covered much of southeast  for an  period.
298 new+orleans Betsy caused $10–$12 billion (2005 USD) in damage, as well as 76 deaths. caused $10–$12 billion ( USD) in damage, as well as  deaths.
299 new+orleans It was the first storm to cause $1 billion US in damage (unadjusted for inflation), thus earning it the nickname "Billion Dollar Betsy". It was the  storm to cause $1 billion  in damage (unadjusted for inflation), thus earning it the nickname "Billion Dollar Betsy".
300 new+orleans Upon entering  the Gulf of Mexico, Carmen turned northward and re-intensified as it approached the United States. Upon entering  the   ,  turned northward and re-intensified as it approached the  .
301 new+orleans Initially threatening the major city of New Orleans, it veered westward and made landfall again over the marshland of southern Louisiana, eventually dissipating over eastern Texas on September 10. Initially threatening the major city of  , it veered westward and made landfall again over the marshland of southern , eventually dissipating over eastern  on  .
302 new+orleans Coinciding with the issuance of tropical cyclone watches and warnings, approximately 100,000 residents left their homes and sought shelter. Coinciding with the issuance of tropical cyclone watches and warnings, approximately  residents left their homes and sought shelter.
303 new+orleans Damage was lighter than first feared, but the sugar crop suffered substantial losses. Damage was lighter than  feared, but the sugar crop suffered substantial losses.
304 new+orleans The depression drifted eastward under the influence of the dissipating frontal trough and intensified into Tropical Storm Florence, as confirmed by Hurricane Hunters. The depression drifted eastward under the influence of the dissipating frontal trough and intensified into Tropical Storm , as confirmed by Hurricane Hunters.
305 new+orleans The storm turned northward on September 9 and accelerated toward the northern Gulf Coast under the influence of a mid- to upper-level trough. The storm turned northward on   and accelerated toward the northern   under the influence of a mid- to upper-level trough.
306 new+orleans Florence became a hurricane just hours before landfall on the western Mississippi Delta. became a hurricane just  before landfall on the western  .
307 new+orleans The storm rapidly weakened over southeastern Louisiana and lost all its deep convection as it passed over the New Orleans area. The storm rapidly weakened over southeastern  and lost all its deep convection as it passed over the   area.
308 new+orleans Florence became a depression on September 10 near Baton Rouge and dissipated the next day over northeast Texas. became a depression on   near   and dissipated    over norast .
309 new+orleans Earl became a named system in the southwestern Gulf of Mexico on August 31. became a named system in the southwestern    on  .
310 new+orleans It headed generally northeast, and although it retained a subtropical-type structure with a comma head pattern and a large dry slot, it reached hurricane strength on September 2 while 125 miles (232 km) south-southeast of New Orleans, Louisiana. It headed generally northeast, and although it retained a subtropical-type structure with a comma head pattern and a large dry slot, it reached hurricane strength on   while 15 miles (3 km) south-southeast of  , .
311 new+orleans It made landfall at Category 1 on September 3 near Panama City, Florida. It made landfall at Category  on   near  , .
312 new+orleans After travelling inland, Earl became extratropical over Georgia, and then moved back out to sea and was tracked into the North Atlantic until it was absorbed by the extratropical remnants of Hurricane Danielle on September 8. After travelling inland,  became extratropical over , and then moved back out to sea and was tracked into the   until it was absorbed by the extratropical remnants of Hurricane Danielle on  .
313 new+orleans After the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina in September 2005, the Brigade deployed 2nd Battalion, 227th Aviation and the brigade command team to Louisiana to support disaster relief operations in New Orleans. After the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina in  , the Brigade deployed  Battalion, 227th Aviation and the brigade command team to  to support disaster relief operations in  .
314 new+orleans Immediately upon redeployment, 2-227 AVN and the brigade command team redeployed to East Texas to assist relief efforts in the wake of Hurricane Rita. Immediately upon redeployment,   and the brigade command team redeployed to   to assist relief efforts in the wake of Hurricane Rita.
315 new+orleans Shortly after returning from the hurricane relief effort, the 2nd Battalion, 227th Aviation Regiment and elements of the 615th Aviation Support Battalion were called upon to support a humanitarian aid mission in the aftermath of the October 2005 earthquake that devastated northern Pakistan. Shortly after returning from the hurricane relief effort, the  Battalion,    and elements of the 615th  Support Battalion were called upon to support a humanitarian aid mission in the aftermath of the   earthquake that devastated northern .
316 new+orleans After Hurricane Katrina hit Louisiana on 31 August 2005, Members of the 1st Battalion, 153rd Infantry Regiment, along with other 39th IBCT units deployed to New Orleans to support the relief and recovery efforts as part of Operation Katrina. After Hurricane  hit  on   , Members of the  Battalion,  Infantry Regiment, along with other  IBCT units deployed to   to support the relief and recovery efforts as part of Operation .
317 new+orleans Under tactical control of the Louisiana National Guard, 1–153rd soldiers were given the mission of providing security and food and water. Under tactical control of the   , –53rd soldiers were given the mission of providing security and food and water.
318 new+orleans The mission of the 39th IBCT in Louisiana grew to the point that at one time the brigade was responsible for working with local officials in fourteen parishes. The mission of the  IBCT in  grew to the point that at  time the brigade was responsible for working with local officials in  parishes.
319 new+orleans Members of the 1st Battalion, 153rd Infantry Regiment and the Arkansas National Guard remained deployed in Louisiana until February 2006. Members of the  Battalion,  Infantry Regiment and the    remained deployed in  until  .
320 new+orleans The War on Terrorism generated extreme controversy around the world, with questions regarding the justification for U.S. actions leading to a loss of support for the American government, both in and outside the United States. The War on  generated extreme controversy around the world, with questions regarding the justification for  actions leading to a loss of support for the  government, both in and outside the  .
321 new+orleans Additional armed conflict occurred in the Middle East, including between Israel and Hezbollah, then with Israel and the Hamas. Additional armed conflict occurred in the  , including between  and , then with  and the .
322 new+orleans The greatest loss of life due to natural disaster came from the 2004 tsunami, killing around a quarter-million people and displacing well over a million others. The greatest loss of life due to natural disaster came from the  tsunami, killing around a quarter- people and displacing well over a  others.
323 new+orleans Cooperative international rescue missions by many countries from around the world helped in efforts by the most affected nations to rebuild and recover from the devastation. Cooperative international rescue missions by many countries from around the world helped in efforts by the most affected nations to rebuild and recover from the devastation.
324 new+orleans An enormous loss of life and property value came in 2005, when Hurricane Katrina flooded nearly the entire city of New Orleans. An enormous loss of life and property value came in , when Hurricane  flooded nearly the entire city of  .
325 new+orleans The resulting political fallout was severely damaging to the George W. Bush administration because of its perceived failure to act promptly and effectively. The resulting political fallout was severely damaging to the    administration because of its perceived failure to act promptly and effectively.
326 new+orleans In 2008, Barack Obama was elected President of the United States, and became the first African-American U.S. president when he succeeded Bush in 2009. In ,   was elected President of the  , and became the    president when he succeeded  in .
327 new+orleans Katrina also had significant political consequences, as President George W. Bush, Louisiana governor Kathleen Blanco, and New Orleans mayor Ray Nagin all came under heavy criticism for what were considered sluggish or inappropriate responses to Hurricane Katrina. also had significant political consequences, as President   ,  governor  , and   mayor   all came under heavy criticism for what were considered sluggish or inappropriate responses to Hurricane .
328 new+orleans On December 14, 2005, congressional hearings began to investigate whether these claims had any merit. On    congressional hearings began to investigate whether these claims had any merit.
329 new+orleans In addition, Michael Brown, head of the United States Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), was forced to resign from his post after the organization came under fire for what was perceived as an insufficient response to Katrina. In addition,  , head of the       (), was forced to resign from his post after the organization came under fire for what was perceived as an insufficient response to .
330 new+orleans The hardest-hit area was the United States Gulf Coast from eastern Texas to the Florida Panhandle. The hardest-hit area was the     from eastern  to the  .
331 new+orleans First to strike the area was Hurricane Dennis, which caused $2.23 billion in damage along the Florida Panhandle. to strike the area was Hurricane Dennis, which caused $2.23 billion in damage along the  .
332 new+orleans Hurricane Katrina caused catastrophic damage to the Gulf Coast, devastating a long stretch of coast along Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama with a 30-foot (9 m) storm surge. Hurricane  caused catastrophic damage to the  , devastating a long stretch of coast along , , and  with a 30-foot ( m) storm surge.
333 new+orleans Wind damage was reported well inland, slowing down recovery efforts. Wind damage was reported well inland, slowing down recovery efforts.
334 new+orleans Storm surge also breached levees in the city of New Orleans, Louisiana, flooding about 80% of the city. Storm surge also breached levees in the city of  , , flooding about 80% of the city.
335 new+orleans Total damage has been estimated at $108 billion, and at least 1,836 people were killed by the storm; Katrina is by far the costliest hurricane in U.S. history, surpassing 1992's Hurricane Andrew, and the deadliest hurricane in the U.S. since 1928. Total damage has been estimated at $108 billion, and at least  people were killed by the storm; Katrina is by far the costliest hurricane in  history, surpassing 's Hurricane , and the deadliest hurricane in the  since .
336 new+orleans Hurricane Rita struck near the same area, re-flooded New Orleans (though to a far less degree than Katrina), and caused extensive damage along the coastlines of Louisiana and Texas; total damage is estimated at about $12 billion. Hurricane Rita struck near the same area, re-flooded   (though to a far less degree than ), and caused extensive damage along the coastlines of  and ; total damage is estimated at about $12 billion.
337 new+orleans Tropical Storm Arlene and Hurricane Cindy also struck the Gulf Coast but caused much lighter damage. Tropical Storm  and Hurricane  also struck the Gulf Coast but caused much lighter damage.
338 new+orleans Tropical Storm Jose followed, forming in the Bay of Campeche on August 22. Tropical Storm  followed, forming in the Bay of  on  .
339 new+orleans It strengthened rapidly but quickly reached the coast and made landfall in the Mexican state of Veracruz on August 23, preventing further strengthening. It strengthened rapidly but quickly reached the coast and made landfall in the  state of  on  , preventing further strengthening.
340 new+orleans Jose forced 25,000 people to evacuate their homes in Veracruz and killed six people in the state of Oaxaca; two more were reported missing. forced  people to evacuate their homes in  and killed  people in the state of ;  more were reported missing.
341 new+orleans In all, damage in Mexico amounted to $45 million (2005 USD; $  USD). In all, damage in  amounted to $45 million ( USD; $  USD).
342 new+orleans Hurricane Katrina formed in mid-August over the Bahamas. Hurricane  formed in mid-August over the .
343 new+orleans It became a tropical storm on August 24 and reached hurricane intensity before making landfall in south Florida as a minimal hurricane. It became a tropical storm on   and reached hurricane intensity before making landfall in south  as a minimal hurricane.
344 new+orleans A few hours later, the storm entered the Gulf of Mexico and intensified rapidly into a Category 5 hurricane while crossing the Loop Current on August 28. , the storm entered the    and intensified rapidly into a Category  hurricane while crossing the Loop  on ugust .
345 new+orleans Katrina made landfall on August 29 near the mouth of the Mississippi River as an extremely large Category 3 hurricane. made landfall on   near the mouth of the   as an extremely large Category  hurricane.
346 new+orleans Category 5-level storm surge (as the storm had weakened only in the previous several hours) caused catastrophic damage along the coastlines of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama. Category 5-level storm surge (as  storm had weakened only in    ) caused catastrophic damage along  coastlines of , , and .
347 new+orleans Levees separating Lake Pontchartrain from New Orleans, Louisiana were breached by the surge, ultimately flooding about 80% of the city. Levees separating   from  ,  were breached by the surge, ultimately flooding about 80% of the city.
348 new+orleans Wind damage was reported well inland, impeding relief efforts. Wind damage was reported well inland, impeding relief efforts.
349 new+orleans Katrina is estimated to be responsible for at least $81.2 billion (2005 USD; $  USD) in damage, breaking Hurricane Andrew's record in 1992, making it the costliest natural disaster in U.S. history. is estimated to be responsible for at least $81.2 billion ( USD; $  USD) in damage, breaking Hurricane 's record in , making it the costliest natural disaster in  history.
350 new+orleans It was the deadliest U.S. hurricane since the 1928 Okeechobee Hurricane, killing at least 1,836 people. It was the deadliest  hurricane since the  Okeechobee Hurricane, killing at least  people.
351 new+orleans The 1900 Galveston Hurricane remains the deadliest natural disaster in United States history, with a death toll of approximately 6,000. The   Hurricane remains the deadliest natural disaster in   history, with a death toll of approximately .
352 new+orleans The "2005 Atlantic hurricane season" was the most active Atlantic hurricane season in recorded history, shattering numerous records. The "  hurricane season" was the most active  hurricane season in recorded history, shattering numerous records.
353 new+orleans The impact of the season was widespread and ruinous with an estimated 3,913 deaths and record damage of about $159.2 billion. The impact of the season was widespread and ruinous with an estimated  deaths and record damage of about $159.2 billion.
354 new+orleans Of the storms that made landfall, five of the season's seven major hurricanes—Dennis, Emily, Katrina, Rita, and Wilma—were responsible for most of the destruction. Of the storms that made landfall,  of the season's  major hurricanes—, , , , and —were responsible for most of the destruction.
355 new+orleans The Mexican states of Quintana Roo and Yucatán and the US states of Florida and Louisiana were each struck twice by major hurricanes; Cuba, the Bahamas, Haiti, Mississippi, Texas, and Tamaulipas were each struck once and in each case brushed by at least one more. The  states of   and  and the  states of  and  were each struck twice by major hurricanes; , the , , , , and  were each struck  and in each case brushed by at least  more.
356 new+orleans The most catastrophic effects of the season were felt on the United States' Gulf Coast, where a 30 ft (10 m) storm surge from Hurricane Katrina caused devastating flooding that inundated New Orleans, Louisiana and destroyed most structures on the Mississippi coastline; and in Guatemala, where Hurricane Stan combined with an extratropical system to cause deadly mudslides. The most catastrophic effects of the season were felt on the    , where a  ft ( m) storm surge from Hurricane  caused devastating flooding that inundated  ,  and destroyed most structures on the  coastline; and in , where Hurricane Stan combined with an extratropical system to cause deadly mudslides.
357 new+orleans According to Professor Raymond Seed of the University of California, Berkeley, a surge of water estimated at 24 feet (7 m), about 10 feet (3 m) higher than the height of the levees along the city's eastern flank, swept into New Orleans from the Gulf of Mexico, causing most of the flooding in the city. According to Pressor    the   , , a surge  water estimated at  feet ( m), about  feet ( m) higher than the height  the levees along the city's eastern flank, swept into   from the   , causing most  the flooding in the city.
358 new+orleans He said that storm surge from Lake Borgne travelling up the Intracoastal Waterway caused the breaches on the Industrial Canal. He said that storm surge from   travelling up the Intracoastal Waterway caused the breaches on the Industrial Canal.
359 new+orleans In 29 August 2005 there were over 50 failures of the levees and flood walls protecting New Orleans, Louisiana, and its suburbs following passage of Hurricane Katrina and landfall in Mississippi. In    there were over  failures of the levees and flood walls protecting  , , and its suburbs following passage of Hurricane Katrina and landfall in .
360 new+orleans The levee and flood wall failures caused flooding in 80% of New Orleans and all of St. Bernard Parish. The levee and flood wall failures caused flooding in 80% of   and all of   .
361 new+orleans Tens of billions of gallons of water spilled into vast areas of New Orleans, flooding over 100,000 homes and businesses. Tens of billions of gallons of water spilled into vast areas of  , flooding over  homes and businesses.
362 new+orleans Responsibility for the design and construction of the levee system belongs to the United States Army Corps of Engineers; the responsibility of maintenance belongs to the local levee boards. Responsibility for the design and construction  the levee system belongs to the      ; the responsibility  maintenance belongs to the local levee boards.
363 new+orleans The Corps hands components of the system over to the local levee boards upon completion. The Corps hands components of the system over to the local levee boards upon completion.
364 new+orleans When Katrina struck in 2005, the project was between 60-90% complete. When  struck in , the project was between 60-90% complete.
365 new+orleans Five investigations (three major and two minor) were conducted by civil engineers and other experts, in an attempt to identify the underlying reasons for the failure of the federal flood protection system. investigations ( major and  minor) were conducted by civil engineers and other experts, in an attempt to identify the underlying reasons for the failure of the federal flood protection system.
366 new+orleans All concur that the primary cause of the flooding was inadequate design and construction by the Corps of Engineers. All concur that the primary cause  the flooding was inadequate design and construction by the   .
367 new+orleans On August 29, 2005, flood walls and levees catastrophically failed throughout the metro area. On    flood walls and levees catastrophically failed throughout the metro area.
368 new+orleans Some – the extent of which is disputed – collapsed well below design thresholds (17th Street and London Canals). Some – the extent of which is disputed – collapsed well below design thresholds ( Street and  Canals).
369 new+orleans Others collapsed after a brief period of overtopping (Industrial Canal) caused "scouring" or erosion of the earthen levee walls – a design flaw. Others collapsed after a brief period of overtopping (Industrial Canal) caused "scouring" or erosion of the earthen levee walls – a design flaw.
370 new+orleans In April 2007, the American Society of Civil Engineers called the flooding of New Orleans "the worst engineering catastrophe in US History." In  , the      called the flooding    "the worst engineering catastrophe in  History."
371 new+orleans The primary mechanisms of failure at the 17th Street Canal, London Avenue Canal and Industrial Canal (east side north) were improper design. The primary mechanisms of failure at the  Street ,    and Industrial  (east side north) were improper design.
372 new+orleans The failure mechanism for the Industrial Canal (east side south and west side) was  overtopping of levees and floodwalls by the storm surge. The failure mechanism for the   (east side south and west side) was  overtopping of levees and floodwalls by the storm surge.
373 new+orleans The primary mechanism of failure for levees protecting eastern New Orleans was the existence of sand in 10% of places instead of thick Louisiana clay. The primary mechanism of failure for levees protecting eastern   was the existence of sand in 10% of places instead of thick  clay.
374 new+orleans The primary mechanism of failure for the levees protecting St. Bernard Parish was overtopping due to negligent maintenance of the Mississippi River Gulf Outlet, a navigation channel, by the Corps of Engineers. The primary mechanism  failure for the levees protecting St.   was overtopping due to negligent maintenance  the    , a navigation channel, by the   .
375 new+orleans The engineers responsible for the design of the canal levees and the I-walls embedded in them overestimated the soil strength, meaning that the soil strength used in the design calculations was greater than what actually existed under and near the levee during Hurricane Katrina. The engineers responsible for the design of the canal levees and the  embedded in them overestimated the soil strength, meaning that the soil strength used in the design calculations was greater than what actually existed under and near the levee during Hurricane Katrina.
376 new+orleans They made an unconservative (i.e., erring toward unsafe) interpretations of the data: the soil below the levee was actually weaker than that used in the I-wall design (ASCE: External Review Panel, pg 48). They made an unconservative (i.e., erring toward unsafe) interpretations of the data: the soil below the levee was actually weaker than that used in the  design (ASCE: External Review Panel, pg ).
377 new+orleans Another critical engineering oversight that led to the failure of the 17th Street Canal involves not taking into account the possibility of a water-filled gap which turned out to be a very important aspect of the failures of the I-walls around New Orleans. Another critical engineering oversight that led to the failure of the  Street Canal involves not taking into account the possibility of a water-filled gap which turned out to be a very important aspect of the failures of the  around  .
378 new+orleans “Analysis indicate that, with the presence of a water-filled gap, the factor of safety is about 30 percent lower. “Analysis indicate that, with the presence of a water-filled gap, the factor of safety is about 30 percent lower.
379 new+orleans Because a factor of safety of 1.3 was used for design, a reduction of 30 percent would reduce the factor of safety to approximately one: a condition of incipient failure.” Because a factor of safety of  was used for design, a reduction of 30 percent would reduce the factor of safety to approximately : a condition of incipient failure.”
380 new+orleans (ASCE: External Review Panel, pg 51) (ASCE: External Review Panel, pg )
381 new+orleans Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan among other public figures claimed the levees were dynamited to divert waters away from wealthy white areas. Nation of  leader   among other public figures claimed the levees were dynamited to divert waters away from wealthy white areas.
382 new+orleans The conspiracy theory reached a United States House of Representatives committee investigating Katrina when a New Orleans community activist made the claim. The conspiracy theory reached a      committee investigating Katrina when a   community activist made the claim.
383 new+orleans The theory became according to the "New Orleans Times Picayune" an "urban myth". The theory became according to the "   " an "urban myth".
384 new+orleans Reasons for belief in these theories were ascribed to the decision by city officials during The Great Mississippi Flood of 1927 to set off 30 tons of dynamite on the levee at Caernarvon, Louisiana which eased pressure on levees at New Orleans but flooded St. Bernard Parish, the Ninth Ward taking the brunt of the city's flooding during Hurricane Betsy, the general disenfranchisement of blacks and lower-class people, and the similarity of sound of the levees collapsing to that of a bombing. Reasons for belief in these theories were ascribed to the decision by city officials during    Flood of  to set off  tons of dynamite on the levee at ,  which eased pressure on levees at   but flooded   , the  Ward taking the brunt of the city's flooding during Hurricane , the general disenfranchisement of blacks and lower-class people, and the similarity of sound of the levees collapsing to that of a bombing.
385 new+orleans Investigators focused on the 17th Street and London Avenue canals, where evidence showed they were breached even though water did not flow over their tops, indicating a design or construction flaw. Investigators focused on the  Street and   canals, where evidence showed they were breached even though water did not flow over their tops, indicating a design or construction flaw.
386 new+orleans Eyewitness accounts and other evidence show that levees and flood walls in other parts of the city, such as along the Industrial Canal, were topped by floodwaters first, then breached or eroded. Eyewitness accounts and other evidence show that levees and flood walls in other parts of the city, such as along the Industrial Canal, were topped by floodwaters , then breached or eroded.
387 new+orleans Many New Orleans levee and flood wall failures in the wake of Hurricane Katrina occurred at weak-link junctions where different levee or wall sections joined together, according to a preliminary report released on November 2, 2005, carried out by independent investigators from the University of California, Berkeley and the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE). Many   levee and flood wall failures in the wake  Hurricane  occurred at weak-link junctions where different levee or wall sections joined together according to a preliminary report released on   005 carried out by independent investigators from the     and the      (ASCE).
388 new+orleans Dr. Robert Bea, chair of an independent levee investigation team, has said that the New Orleans-based design firm Modjeski and Masters could have followed correct procedures in calculating safety factors for the flood walls. Dr.  , chair of an independent levee investigation team, has said that the   design firm  and  could have followed correct procedures in calculating safety factors for the flood walls.
389 new+orleans He added, however, that design procedures of the Corps may not account for changes in soil strength caused by the changes in water flow and pressure during a hurricane flood. He added, however, that design procedures of the Corps may not account for changes in soil strength caused by the changes in water flow and pressure during a hurricane flood.
390 new+orleans Dr. Bea has also questioned the size of the design safety margins. Dr.  has also questioned the size of the design safety margins.
391 new+orleans He said the corps applied a 30% margin over the maximum design load. He said the corps applied a 30% margin over the maximum design load.
392 new+orleans A doubling of strength would be a more typical margin for highway bridges, dams, off-shore oil platforms and other public structures. A doubling of strength would be a more typical margin for highway bridges, dams, off-shore oil platforms and other public structures.
393 new+orleans There were also indications that substandard concrete may have been used at the 17th Street Canal. There were also indications that substandard concrete may have been used at the  Street Canal.
394 new+orleans As of 15 April, the eruption was not large enough to have an effect on global temperatures like that of Mount Pinatubo and other major past volcanic eruptions. As of  , the eruption was not large enough to have an effect on global temperatures like that of   and other major  volcanic eruptions.
395 new+orleans One previous related sequence of eruptions of this volcano, beginning in 1821 is recorded as having lasted for over two years, however no single set of major eruptions is known to have lasted more than 'several days'. previous related sequence of eruptions of this volcano,    is recorded as havg lasted for over  , however no sgle set of major eruptions is known to have lasted more than ' '.
396 new+orleans Should the eruption continue for a sufficient length of time at its current intensity, the potential remains for a temporary global cooling effect. Should the eruption continue for a sufficient length of time at its  intensity, the potential remains for a temporary global cooling effect.
397 new+orleans By analogy, the Laki eruption has been linked with extreme weather events from severe hailstorms in Great Britain to the Mississippi River freezing at New Orleans. By analogy, the  eruption has been linked with extreme weather events from severe hailstorms in   to the   freezing at  .
398 new+orleans Sulfate aerosols that reach the stratosphere catalyze the production of chlorine monoxide (ClO), which destroys ozone (O3). Sulfate aerosols that reach the stratosphere catalyze the production of chlorine monoxide (ClO), which destroys ozone (O3).
399 new+orleans In the upper troposphere, the same aerosols become nuclei for cirrus clouds, which increase the Earth's albedo and thus alter its radiation balance. In the upper troposphere, the same aerosols become nuclei for cirrus clouds, which increase the 's albedo and thus alter its radiation balance.
400 new+orleans Several eruptions during the past century have caused a decline in the average temperature at the Earth's surface of up to half a degree Celsius for periods of one to three years. Several eruptions during    have caused a decline in  average temperature at  Earth's surface of up  half a degree  for periods of    .
401 new+orleans Fourteen people were killed in Arkansas, with 392 killed across seven states in the preceding storms. people were killed in , with  killed across  states in the preceding storms.
402 new+orleans Thousands of homes were ordered evacuated, including over 1,300 in Memphis, Tennessee, and more than 24,500 in Louisiana and Mississippi state., though some people disregarded mandatory evacuation orders. Thousands of homes were ordered evacuated, including over  in , , and more than  in  and  state., though some people disregarded mandatory evacuation orders.
403 new+orleans , up to 13% of U.S. petroleum refinery output is expected to be disrupted by flood levels exceeding historical records in several locations, with gasoline prices expected to rise. , up to 13% of  petroleum refinery output is expected to be disrupted by flood levels exceeding historical records in several locations, with gasoline prices expected to rise.
404 new+orleans The flood crested in Memphis on May 10 and artificially crested in southern Louisiana on May 15, a week earlier than it would have if spillways had not been opened. The flood crested in  on   nd rtificilly crested in southern  on     erlier thn it would hve if spillwys hd not been opened.
405 new+orleans The United States Army Corps of Engineers stated that an area in Louisiana between Simmesport and Baton Rouge was expected to be inundated with  of water. The       stated that an area in  between  and   was expected to be inundated with   water.
406 new+orleans Baton Rouge, New Orleans, and many other river towns are threatened, but officials stressed that they should be able to avoid catastrophic flooding. ,  , and many other river towns are threatened, but officials stressed that they should be able to avoid catastrophic flooding.
407 new+orleans The Mississippi River floods in April and May 2011 were among the largest and most damaging recorded along the U.S. waterway in the past century, comparable in extent to the major floods of 1927 and 1993. The   floods in  and   were among  largest and most damaging recorded along   waterway in   , comparable in extent to  major floods of  and .
408 new+orleans In April 2011, two major storm systems deposited record levels of rainfall on the Mississippi River watershed. In  ,  major storm systems deposited record levels of rainfall on the   watershed.
409 new+orleans When that additional water combined with the springtime snowmelt, the river and many of its tributaries began to swell to record levels by the beginning of May. When that additional water combined with  springtime snowmelt,  river and many  its tributaries began to swell to record levels by    .
410 new+orleans Areas along the Mississippi itself experiencing flooding include Illinois, Missouri, Kentucky, Tennessee, Arkansas, Mississippi, and Louisiana. Areas along the  itself experiencing flooding include , , , , , , and .
411 new+orleans U.S. President Barack Obama declared the western counties of Kentucky, Tennessee, and Mississippi federal disaster areas. President   declared the western counties of , , and  federal disaster areas.
412 new+orleans For the first time in 37 years, the Morganza Spillway was opened on May 14, deliberately flooding  of rural Louisiana to save most of Baton Rouge and New Orleans. For the  time in  , the   was opened on  , deliberately flooding  of rural  to save most of   and  .
413 new+orleans !style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=10%|Position !style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=30%|Starter(s) !style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=30%|Reserve(s) !style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=30%|Alternate(s) |" Julius Peppers, Chicago"" John Abraham, Atlanta" |" Justin Tuck, N.Y. !style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=10%Position !style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=30%Starter(s) !style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=30%Reserve(s) !style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=30%Alternate(s) "  , ""  , " "  ,
414 new+orleans Giants" |" Justin Smith, San Francisco" |align=center|Outside linebacker |" Brian Orakpo, Washington"" Jon Beason, Carolina" |align=center|Inside linebacker |" Jonathan Vilma, New Orleans"" London Fletcher, Washington" E. J. Henderson, Minnesota A.J. Hawk, Green Bay |" DeAngelo Hall, Washington" |" Antrel Rolle, N.Y. Giants" "  ,  " align=centerOutside linebacker "  , ""  , " align=centerInside linebacker " athan ,  ""  , "   ,  A. Hawk,   "  , " "  ,
415 new+orleans Giants" |" Roman Harper, New Orleans" !style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=10%|Position !style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=30%|Starter(s) !style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=30%|Reserve(s) !style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=30%|Alternate(s) |" David Akers, Philadelphia" |" Zak DeOssie, N.Y. Giants" |"  , New Orleans" !style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=10%Position !style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=30%Starter(s) !style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=30%Reserve(s) !style="background: #e3e3e3;" width=30%Alternate(s) "  , " "  ,
416 new+orleans Giants"  class="wikitable sortable sortable" border="1" ! Giants"  class="wikitable sortable sortable" border="" !
417 new+orleans AFC Team !! Selections !! NFC Team !! Selections AFC Team !!Selections !!NFC Team !!Selections
418 new+orleans During Hurricane Katrina in September 2005, members of the unit deployed to New Orleans and Pineville, LA to provide communications in support of recovery efforts. During Hurricane  in  , members of the unit deployed to   and ,  to provide communications in support of recovery efforts.
419 new+orleans On August 29, 2005, Hurricane Katrina struck the gulf coast of Louisiana and Mississippi while most members of the 256th Infantry Brigade were still serving their final weeks of deployment in Iraq. On    Hurricane Katrina struck the gulf coast of  and  while most members of the 256th Infantry Brigade were still serving their final  of deployment in .
420 new+orleans Following the return of the Brigade to Louisiana, a detachment immediately mobilized to New Orleans to aid Law Enforcement with rescue efforts. Following the return of the Brigade to , a detachment immediately mobilized to   to aid Law Enforcement with rescue efforts.
421 new+orleans With the help of the Louisiana State Police, those efforts transitioned into a support mission for the New Orleans Police Department. With the help of the   , those efforts transitioned into a support mission for the    .
422 new+orleans Joint Task Force Gator was created to help combat the rise of looting and other crimes resulting from the loss of law enforcement officers in the New Orleans area. Joint Task Force Gator was created to help combat the rise of looting and other crimes resulting from the loss of law enforcement officers in the   area.
423 new+orleans After three-and-a-half years of assisting local police and patrolling the city, the Task Force was released from duty on February 28, 2009. After   of assisting local police and patrolling the city the Task Force was released from duty on   .
424 new+orleans After Hurricane Katrina hit Louisiana in August 2005, members of the 2nd Battalion, 153rd Infantry were deployed to New Orleans by C-130s from the Little Rock Air Force Base to support the relief and recovery efforts there. After Hurricane  hit  in  , members of the  Battalion,  Infantry were deployed to   by C-130s from the Little Rock Air Force Base to support the relief and recovery efforts there.
425 new+orleans Under tactical control of the Louisiana National Guard, 2–153rd soldiers were given the mission of providing security and food and water to the citizens of Louisiana. Under tactical control of the   , – soldiers were given the mission of providing security and food and water to the citizens of .
426 new+orleans Members of the 2–153rd IN and the 39th IBCT remained deployed in Louisiana until February 2006. Members of the – IN and the  IBCT remained deployed in  until  006.
427 new+orleans After the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina in September 2005, the Brigade deployed 2nd Battalion, 227th Aviation and the brigade command team to Louisiana to support disaster relief operations in New Orleans. After the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina in  , the Brigade deployed  Battalion, 227th Aviation and the brigade command team to  to support disaster relief operations in  .
428 new+orleans Immediately upon redeployment, 2-227 AVN and the brigade command team redeployed to East Texas to assist relief efforts in the wake of Hurricane Rita. Immediately upon redeployment,   and the brigade command team redeployed to   to assist relief efforts in the wake of Hurricane Rita.
429 new+orleans Shortly after returning from the hurricane relief effort, the 2nd Battalion, 227th Aviation Regiment and elements of the 615th Aviation Support Battalion were called upon to support a humanitarian aid mission in the aftermath of the October 2005 earthquake that devastated northern Pakistan. Shortly after returning from the hurricane relief effort, the  Battalion,    and elements of the 615th  Support Battalion were called upon to support a humanitarian aid mission in the aftermath of the   earthquake that devastated northern .
430 new+orleans During the transformation, the Black Jack Brigade once again answered the call of the nation and deployed to New Orleans, Louisiana in support of the humanitarian relief effort following Hurricane Katrina. During the transformation, the     again answered the call of the nation and deployed to  ,  in support of the humanitarian relief effort following Hurricane Katrina.
431 new+orleans During the deployment, the Black Jack Brigade provided humanitarian and military assistance to the local governance and to the citizens of the Algiers district. During the deployment, the    provided humanitarian and military assistance to the local governance and to the citizens of the  district.
432 new+orleans On 28 August 2005, in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans, the 39th Support Battalion was ordered to send six cargo trucks and twelve personnel to New Orleans to assist in evacuating the VA hospital. On   , in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in  , the  Support Battalion was ordered to send  cargo trucks and  personnel to   to assist in evacuating the VA hospital.
433 new+orleans Not knowing what kind of conditions they would face, the battalion added a wrecker and a fuel truck (from the 35th Aviation Brigade) to the mission and sent sixteen soldiers and eight vehicles to New Orleans. Not knowing what kind of conditions they would face, the battalion added a wrecker and a fuel truck (from the  Aviation Brigade) to the mission and sent  soldiers and  vehicles to  .
434 new+orleans Each of the volunteer soldiers informed employers and loved ones upon notification of the mission, and within hours they departed Hazen via convoy at approximately 2030 hours. Each of the volunteer soldiers informed employers and loved ones upon notification of the mission, and within  they departed  via convoy at approximately  .
435 new+orleans Their orders were to drive the entire distance that night. Their orders were to drive the entire distance that night.
436 new+orleans If absolutely necessary, they were to stop and sleep, but there were hundreds of vets counting on their help. If absolutely necessary, they were to stop and sleep, but there were hundreds of vets counting on their help.
437 new+orleans The convoy pressed on through the night, stopping every thirty or forty minutes to walk around and stay awake. The convoy pressed on through the night, stopping every  or   to walk around and stay awake.
438 new+orleans They arrived at the staging area in Alexandria at 0430 the next day and began working around the clock to evacuate over 200 veterans. They arrived at  staging area in  at     and began working around  clock to evacuate over  veterans.
439 new+orleans Some of the soldiers carried disabled vets on their backs down flights of stairs to load them on their 5-Ton trucks for evacuation. Some of the soldiers carried disabled vets on their backs down flights of stairs to load them on their 5-Ton trucks for evacuation.
440 new+orleans After Hurricane Katrina hit Louisiana in August 2005, elements of the 39th deployed to New Orleans by C-130s from the Little Rock Air Force Base to support the relief and recovery efforts as part of Operation Katrina. After Hurricane  hit  in  , elements of the  deployed to   by C-130s from the Little Rock Air Force Base to support the relief and recovery efforts as part of Operation .
441 new+orleans Under tactical control of the Louisiana National Guard, 39th soldiers were given the mission of providing security and food and water to an estimated 20,000 people at the New Orleans Convention Center on 2 September. Under tactical control of the   ,  soldiers were given the mission of providing security and food and water to an estimated  people at the     on  .
442 new+orleans By the afternoon of 3 September, all individuals staying in and around the Convention Center had been evacuated. By the afternoon of 3 , all individuals staying in and around the   had been evacuated.
443 new+orleans The mission of the 39th in Louisiana grew to the point that at one time the brigade was responsible for working with local officials in fourteen parishes. The mission of the  in  grew to the point that at  time the brigade was responsible for working with local officials in  parishes.
444 new+orleans Elements of the 39th and the Arkansas National Guard stayed deployed in Louisiana until February 2006. Elements of the  and the    stayed deployed in  until  .
445 new+orleans The 39th IBCT is the largest National Guard command in Arkansas. The  IBCT is the largest   command in .
446 new+orleans It is headquartered in Little Rock, Arkansas. It is headquartered in  , .
447 new+orleans It was placed in federal service on 12 October 2003 in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom II. It was placed in federal service on    in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom .
448 new+orleans The 39th was attached to the 1st Cavalry Division and served in and around Baghdad for a year, returning to the United States in March 2005. The  ws ttched to the    nd served in nd round  for  yer, returning to the  Sttes in Mrch .
449 new+orleans In late August 2005, after Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast of the United States, elements of the 39th, then commanded by Colonel Mike Ross, were among the first military units to provide recovery and relief efforts to citizens of New Orleans, Louisiana. In   , after Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast of the  , elements of the , then commanded by Colonel  , were among the  military units to provide recovery and relief efforts to citizens of  , .
450 new+orleans The 39th lead the effort to evacuate an estimated 16,000 people from the New Orleans Convention Center. The  lead the effort to evacuate an estimated  people from the   Convention Center.
451 new+orleans The 39th Brigade completed its second deployment to Iraq in December 2008, after spending a year on active federal duty. The  Brigde completed its  deployment to  in  , fter spending  yer on ctive federl duty.
452 new+orleans Unlike the last deployment to Iraq from 2004–2005, the 39th Brigade headquarters did not have command and control of all of its subordinate units. Unlike the last deployment to  from –, the  Brigade headquarters did not have command and control of all of its subordinate units.
453 new+orleans After Hurricane Katrina hit Louisiana in August 2005, elements of the 3rd Battalion, 153rd Infantry were deployed to New Orleans by C-130s from the Little Rock Air Force Base to support the relief and recovery efforts there. After Hurricane  hit  in  , elements of the  Battalion, 15 Infantry were deployed to   by C-130s from the Little Rock Air Force Base to support the relief and recovery efforts there.
454 new+orleans Under tactical control of the Louisiana National Guard, 3rd Battalion soldiers were given the mission of providing security and food and water to an estimated 20,000 people at the New Orleans Convention Center on 2 September. Under tactical control of the   ,  Battalion soldiers were given the mission of providing security and food and water to an estimated  people at the     on  .
455 new+orleans By the afternoon of 3 September, all individuals staying in and around the Convention Center had been evacuated. By the afternoon of 3 , all individuals staying in and around the   had been evacuated.
456 new+orleans Members of the 3rd Battalion and the 39th IBCT stayed deployed in Louisiana until February 2006. Members of the  Battalion and the  IBCT stayed deployed in  until  .
457 new+orleans Operation Katrina was the final operation for 3–153rd Infantry. was the final operation for –15rd Infantry.
458 new+orleans By the time the battalion headquarters redeployed to Arkansas after being relieved by 1–153rd IN in October, the 3rd Battalion had already officially ceased to exist. By the time the battalion headquarters redeployed to  after being relieved by –5 IN in , the  Battalion had already officially ceased to exist.
459 new+orleans In September, 2005, in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, Brigadier General Douglas Pritt commanded the majority of the brigade as part of Task Force Oregon in relief and security efforts near the French Quarter in New Orleans. In   in  aftermath of Hurricane Katrina Brigadier General   commanded  majority of  brigade as part of    in relief and security efforts near    in  .
460 new+orleans By the end of the month, when Hurricane Rita wreaked havoc again on the Gulf Coast, the 41st was put in charge of the newly designated Joint Task Force Rita to assist in all disaster-related needs in Texas and Louisiana. By     , when   wreaked havoc again on  Gulf Coast,   was put in charge   newly designated     to assist in all disaster-related needs in  and .
461 new+orleans In September, 2005, the 505th PIR deployed a brigade size element, minus the rear detachment, to New Orleans, Louisiana. In   the 505th PIR deployed a brigade size element minus the rear detachment to   .
462 new+orleans Soldiers either flew or convoyed, for three days, to the city to assist in rescue and recovery operations of "displaced Americans", as well as restoring order to the city in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. Soldiers either flew or convoyed, for  , to the city to assist in rescue and recovery operations of "displaced ", as well as restoring order to the city in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.
463 new+orleans The 50th AS is also known for humanitarian relief. The  AS is also known for humanitarian relief.
464 new+orleans During the 2004 Asian Tsunami crisis, the 50th sent several crews and tons of food rations to Thailand to help those in need. During the    crisis, the  sent several crews and tons of food rations to  to help those in need.
465 new+orleans Following the horrors of Hurricane Katrina, 50th AS aircrews helped relocate survivors from the New Orleans, Louisiana and Biloxi, Mississippi areas to Little Rock, Arkansas. Following the horrors of Hurricane Katrina,  AS aircrews helped relocate survivors from the  ,  and ,  areas to  , .
466 new+orleans Humanitarian missions were flown in and out of Haiti following a major earthquake in December, 2010. Humanitarian missions were flown in and out of  following a major earthquake in  .
467 new+orleans On 1 September 2005 the entire Brigade Combat Team was mobilized to deploy to Louisiana after Hurricane Katrina, the sixth strongest hurricane ever recorded in the Atlantic Ocean, slammed into the Gulf Coast. On    the entire Brigade Combat Team was mobilized to deploy to  after Hurricane , the  strongest hurricane ever recorded in the  , slammed into the Gulf Coast.
468 new+orleans The 56th SBCT was stationed in and around New Orleans to support the relief effort for nearly a month and a half. The  SBCT ws sttioned in nd round   to support the relief effort for    nd  hlf.
469 new+orleans This included a subsequent deployment to the areas damaged by Hurricane Rita, which made land fall near the Louisiana-Texas border. This included a subsequent deployment to the areas damaged by Hurricane Rita, which made land  near the  border.
470 new+orleans When Hurricane Katrina struck New Orleans in 2005, the effects were disastrous; see Effect of Hurricane Katrina on New Orleans. When Hurricane  struck   in , the effects were disastrous; see Effect of Hurricane  on  .
471 new+orleans The London Avenue Canal breached catastrophically on both sides, flooding the majority of the Ward and the surrounding area. The    breached catastrophically on both sides, flooding the majority of the  and the surrounding area.
472 new+orleans The 7th ward has since seen many residents return. The  ward has since seen many residents return.
473 new+orleans Hurricane Katrina in 2005 provided a unique and unexpected mission for the paratroopers of the unit, as they were deployed to provide assistance to the citizens of Louisiana. Hurricane  in  provided a unique and unexpected mission for the paratroopers of the unit, as they were deployed to provide assistance to the citizens of .
474 new+orleans The supporting units were deployed to New Orleans International Airport along with the division's 3rd Brigade and division Artillery units, a force of some 5,000 soldiers. The supporting units were deployed to     along with the division's   and division Artillery units, a force of some  soldiers.
475 new+orleans They conducted security operations and search and rescue missions throughout New Orleans, Louisiana. They conducted security operations and search and rescue missions throughout  , .
476 new+orleans The U.S. sea services also respond to domestic emergencies when needed. The  sea services also respond to domestic emergencies when needed.
477 new+orleans When Hurricane Katrina flooded large portions of New Orleans and the Gulf Coast in 2005, maritime forces responded. When Hurricane  flooded large portions of   and the   in , maritime forces responded.
478 new+orleans Following the late-summer storm, ,  and other Virginia-based Navy ships headed to the Gulf Coast to help with relief efforts. Following the late-summer storm, ,  and other   ships headed to the   to help with relief efforts.
479 new+orleans Thousands of military members were dispatched including Naval Mobile Construction Battalions and six Disaster Relief Teams (DRTs) providing amphibious construction equipment, medical personnel and supplies to the flooded areas. Thousands of military members were dispatched including     and  Disaster Relief Teams (DRTs) providing amphibious construction equipment, medical personnel and supplies to the flooded areas.
480 new+orleans The online version of the story encompasses a two-part prologue, 13 chapters, and an epilogue — 15 chapters in total. The online version of the story encompasses a two-part prologue,  chapters, and an epilogue —  chapters in total.
481 new+orleans In the prologue, from a "God's eye" perspective, "A.D." shows Hurricane Katrina as it builds from a tropical storm in the Bahamas and moves inexorably toward New Orleans. In the prologue, from a "God's eye" perspective, "A.D." shows Hurricane Katrina as it builds from a tropical storm in the  and moves inexorably toward  .
482 new+orleans Katrina slams into the Gulf Coast. Katrina slams into the Gulf Coast.
483 new+orleans Winds and rain lash New Orleans and Biloxi, Mississippi. Winds and rain lash   and , .
484 new+orleans The levees burst and the city is flooded. The levees burst and the city is flooded.
485 new+orleans The 1849 flooding of New Orleans was due to a break in a levee on the Sauvé plantation north of the city on May 3; by May 30, "Sauvé's Crevasse" had caused the inundation of 220 blocks and the displacement of 12,000 people. The  flooding of   was due to a break in a levee on the  plantation north of the city on  ; by  0, "'s Crevasse" had caused the inundation of  blocks and the displacement of  people.
486 new+orleans After the flood, much of New Orleans had to be repaved, drainage gutters replaced, and a new levee was built on Felicity Street. After the flood, much of   had to be repaved, drainage gutters replaced, and a new levee was built on Felicity Street.
487 new+orleans The eastern Acadiana region was among those affected by Hurricane Katrina on August 29, 2005 (although the storm was not nearly as severe as from Greater New Orleans eastward). The eastern  region was among those affected by Hurricane Katrina on    (although the storm was not nearly as severe as from    eastward).
488 new+orleans The region was used by many returning evacuees as a "last stop" of temporary domicile before returning to the Greater New Orleans region. The region was used by many returning evacuees as a "last stop" of temporary domicile before returning to the Greater   region.
489 new+orleans This was due in large part to the Greater Baton Rouge area already being inundated with evacuees. This was due in large part to the    area already being inundated with evacuees.
490 new+orleans Then state Governor Blanco made a public request that those returning not try to seek lodging in the capital due to this crisis of overpopulation. Then state Governor  made a public request that those returning not try to seek lodging in the capital due to this crisis of overpopulation.
491 new+orleans Lafayette and several other municipalities had both public and church-run shelters set up to handle the influx. and several other municipalities had both public and church-run shelters set up to handle the influx.
492 new+orleans The largest of these shelters, run by the Red Cross, was the Lafayette sports area the Cajundome, holding a reported 9,800 persons. The largest of these shelters, run by the  , was the  sports area the Cajundome, holding a reported  persons.
493 new+orleans Flooding in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina disrupted this area ("see:" Effect of Hurricane Katrina on New Orleans), with storm surge funneled by the Mississippi River-Gulf Outlet Canal flooding into this neighborhood in 2005. Flooding in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina disrupted this area ("see:" Effect of Hurricane Katrina on  ), with storm surge funneled by the     flooding into this neighborhood in .
494 new+orleans There are concerns that the flooding has released additional toxins in the area. There are concerns that the flooding has released additional toxins in the area.
495 new+orleans "Press Park", a 56 townhouse housing complex in the area, has been found contaminated with benzopyrene at levels some 50 times EPA health screening level, and remains fenced off as of April 2010. "Press Park", a  townhouse housing complex in the area, has been found contaminated with benzopyrene at levels some  times  health screening level, and remains fenced off as of  .
496 new+orleans August 29, 2005,  Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf of Mexico and quickly became the costliest natural disaster in American history ($81.2 billion dollars) causing severe damage in Mississippi, Alabama, and Louisiana. Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf of  and quickly became the costliest natural disaster in  history ($81.2 billion dollars) causing severe damage in   and .
497 new+orleans Worst hit was New Orleans where 80% of the city was covered in floodwater, 1,836 people died, and over 200,000 homes were destroyed. Worst hit was   where 80% of the city was covered in floodwater,  people died, and over  homes were destroyed.
498 new+orleans Aid Still Required has identified the first two projects it would like to support in New Orleans. Aid Still Required has identified the   projects it would like to support in  .
499 new+orleans "Hurricane Katrina and Mississippi" In August 2005, Hurricane Katrina struck the Gulf Coast with devastating fury. "Hurricane  and " In  , Hurricane  struck the Gulf Coast with devastating fury.
500 new+orleans Within the first two days, Keyes was contacted by a colleague who was working with FEMA and identified as the man coordinating supply distribution in the weeks and months after September 11th. Within    ,  was contacted by a colleague who was working with  and identified as  man coordinating supply distribution in   and    .
501 new+orleans The representative from FEMA asked him to travel to Mississippi, one of the poorest States in the country, to replicate his work. The representative from  asked him to travel to ,  of the poorest States in the country, to replicate his work.
502 new+orleans Within 24 hours, he was in Birmingham with his friend Kevin Beck loading a truck with water, chainsaws, and gasoline. Within  , he was in  with his friend   loading a truck with water, chainsaws, and gasoline.
503 new+orleans Upon arrival in Biloxi, Mississippi, they began delivering supplies and recruiting volunteers to serve critical needs. Upon arrival in , , they began delivering supplies and recruiting volunteers to serve critical needs.
504 new+orleans During that time ULM placed tarps on over 1,000 roofs and brought in over 1,400 tractor trailers of supplies. During that time ULM placed tarps on over  roofs and brought in over  tractor trailers of supplies.
505 new+orleans They served over 500,000 hot meals to Katrina victims and volunteers, and immediately relocated 1,100 families to seven different states. They served over  hot meals to  victims and volunteers, and immediately relocated  families to  different states.
506 new+orleans While these initiatives were successful, it quickly became clear that short term programs would not be enough. While these initiatives were successful, it quickly became clear that short term programs would not be enough.
507 new+orleans The Gulf Coast had been ravaged by Katrina's path, and poverty in the region magnified the impact of the destruction and hindered rebuilding efforts. The Gulf Coast had been ravaged by 's path, and poverty in the region magnified the impact of the destruction and hindered rebuilding efforts.
508 new+orleans The city of Biloxi has set deadlines for homeowners to demolish derelict homes and clear sites, but many of them cannot afford the cleanup costs. The city of  has set deadlines for homeowners to demolish derelict homes and clear sites, but many of them cannot afford the cleanup costs.
509 new+orleans If their deadlines passed, families run the risk of losing their property, so the City Officials asked ULM (now AID for the World) to manage site clearance. If their deadlines passed, families run the risk of losing their property, so the City Officials asked ULM ( AID for the World) to manage site clearance.
510 new+orleans The work in MS continued for two years as thousands of volunteers have come from all over the country to tear down hazardous homes and help families get on their feet financially. The work in MS continued for   as thousands of volunteers have come from all over the country to tear down hazardous homes and help families get on their feet financially.
511 new+orleans AID has completely remodeled 300 houses and placed 1300 families back in their homes. AID has completely remodeled  houses and placed 1 families back in their homes.
512 new+orleans AID for the World is committed to helping communities chart a new journey of sustainable development that will promote economic growth for the state. AID for the  is committed to helping communities chart a new journey of sustainable development that will promote economic growth for the state.
513 new+orleans While homeownership is an important step in that journey, job creation and gainful employment options will help families move into the future. While homeownership is an important step in that journey, job creation and gainful employment options will help families move into  .
514 new+orleans While requests came from the Department of Homeland Security to branch out of Mississippi into New Orleans, Keyes and the organization' leadership developed a key tenet of AID for the World: Emergency disaster relief programs are more effective in a localized context. While requests came from the     to branch out   into  ,  and the organization' leadership developed a key tenet  AID for the World: Emergency disaster relief programs are more effective in a localized context.
515 new+orleans Keeping the agenda of the organization streamlined for specific communities, AID claims to offer simple solutions to affect dramatic and positive change for future generations. Keeping the agenda of the organization streamlined for specific communities, AID claims to offer simple solutions to affect dramatic and positive change for  generations.
516 new+orleans On 29 August 2005, the largest natural disaster the Air Guard faced in its 60 year history began when Hurricane Katrina hit the United States Gulf Coast. On   , the largest natural disaster the Air Guard faced in its   history began when Hurricane  hit the    .
517 new+orleans The most severe damage came from a 30-plus-foot storm surge along the Mississippi coast and the north shore of Lake Pontchartrain in Louisiana and breaks in the levies along a canal in New Orleans. The most severe damage came from a 30-plus-foot storm surge along the  coast and the north shore of   in  and breaks in the levies along a canal in  .
518 new+orleans Several weeks later Hurricane Rita devastated portions of western Louisiana and eastern Texas, and then the less severe Hurricane Wilma damaged Florida. Hurricane Rita devastated portions of western  and eastern , and then the less severe Hurricane  damaged .
