0 dallas On September 2, a tropical storm developed in the Bay of Campeche. On  , a tropical storm developed in the Bay of .
1 dallas Moving generally towards the west-northwest, the storm reached a peak intensity of 60 mph (95 km/h) on September 4, while approaching landfall in Northeastern Mexico. Moving generally towards the west-northwest, the storm reached a peak intensity of  mph ( km/h) on  , while approaching landfall in  .
2 dallas Shortly thereafter, the storm made landfall and quickly weakened into a tropical depression. Shortly thereafter, the storm made landfall and quickly weakened into a tropical depression.
3 dallas Moving northward through Central Texas, the storm dissipated on September 7, while located to the southwest of the Dallas-Fort Worth, Texas area. Moving northward through  , the storm dissipated on  , while located to the southwest of the  ,  area.
4 dallas The storm was responsible for destroying the Brazos Santiago lighthouse and for one fatality. The storm was responsible for destroying the   lighthouse and for  fatality.
5 dallas On Trinidad, rainfall from this storm and a subsequent tropical depression were the heaviest in nine years, which caused rivers to overflow and flooded parts of the island. On , rainfall from this storm and a subsequent tropical depression were the heaviest in  , which caused rivers to overflow and flooded parts of the island.
6 dallas Several boats were damaged or driven ashore from rough seas. Several boats were damaged or driven ashore from rough seas.
7 dallas The two storms caused damage to fields, highways, and houses, and caused the loss of crops such as cocoa and bananas. The  storms caused damage to fields, highways, and houses, and caused the loss of crops such as cocoa and bananas.
8 dallas In all, damage totaled $3 million (1933 USD) and there were 13 deaths on Trinidad. In all, damage totaled $3 million ( USD) and there were  deaths on .
9 dallas The storm produced heavy rainfall in eastern Jamaica, including a record 24-hour total of  in the Corporate Area, and Dallas Castle received  in 24 hours. The storm produced heavy rainfall in eastern , including a record  total of  in the Corporate Area, and   received  in  .
10 dallas This flooded and damaged properties and water systems in Kingston and Saint Andrew, leading to a water famine until the water mains were fixed. This flooded and damaged properties and water systems in  and Saint , leading to a water famine until the water mains were fixed.
11 dallas Damage totaled to over $2.5 million (1933 USD, $  USD), and 70 people were reported killed due to the flooding. Damage totaled to over $2.5 million ( USD, $  USD), and  people were reported killed due to the flooding.
12 dallas Damage was minimal in both Cuba and Florida. Damage was minimal in both  and .
13 dallas The third tropical storm of the season (initially classified as two separate storms but later identified as a single track) was first observed on July 14 near St. Kitts. The  tropical storm of the season (initially classified as  separate storms but later identified as a single track) was  observed on   near  .
14 dallas It moved quickly westward and passed just south of Puerto Rico and Hispaniola as a weak storm. It moved quickly westward and passed just south of   and  as a weak storm.
15 dallas The system curved slightly to the west-northwest and brushed the northern coast of Jamaica before turning slightly westward and hitting the Mexican state of Quintana Roo. The system curved slightly to the west-northwest and brushed the northern coast of  before turning slightly westward and hitting the  state of  .
16 dallas As it crossed the Yucatán Peninsula the cyclone weakened and eventually crossed into the Bay of Campeche. As it crossed the   the cyclone weakened and eventually crossed into the Bay of .
17 dallas It moved quickly to the northwest, and made landfall near Matagorda Bay, in Texas on July 23 as a 45 mph (70 km/h) tropical storm. It moved quickly to the northwest, and made landfall near  , in  on   as a  mph ( km/h) tropical storm.
18 dallas The system turned to the northeast, and became extratropical to the east of Dallas, Texas. The system turned to the northeast, and became extratropical to the east of , .
19 dallas The extratropical system moved slowly through northern Louisiana, turned to the northeast, and dissipated over northeastern Arkansas near Memphis, Tennessee. The extratropical system moved slowly through northern , turned to the northeast, and dissipated over northeastern  near , .
20 dallas 1. Dallas Long, Univ. of Southern Calif. – 61 feet, 9 inches (new NCAA meet record) 2. Jerry Winter, Stanford – 57 feet, 10¾ inches 3. Mike Lewis, Occidental College – 57 feet, 6½ inches . , Univ. of   –  feet,  inches (new  meet record) . ,  –  feet, ¾ inches . ,   –  feet, ½ inches
21 dallas The contrast between the two air masses was stark, and by the morning of October 29 the cold front was about halfway through Texas. The contrast between the  air masses was stark, and by the morning of   the cold front was about halfway through .
22 dallas At 6 am CST, the temperature in the western Texas city of Amarillo had dropped to 22 degrees with a strong northerly breeze. At 6 am CST, the temperature in the western  city of  had dropped to  degrees with a strong northerly breeze.
23 dallas Farther east in Texas the temperature was 64 in Dallas – a 42-degree temperature difference over about 300 miles. Farther east in  the temperature was  in  – a 42-degree temperature difference over about  miles.
24 dallas In the northern United States, morning lows were much colder. In the northern  , morning lows were much colder.
25 dallas Temperatures were in the single digits across Montana and Wyoming and in the teens North Dakota and South Dakota. Temperatures were in the single digits across  and  and in the teens   and  .
26 dallas The "1995 Colima-Jalisco earthquake" was a Mw 8.0 earthquake which occurred on October 9 at 15:36 UTC, off the coast of Jalisco, Mexico. The " Colima- earthquake" was a Mw  earthquake which occurred on   at 15:36 UTC, off the coast of , .
27 dallas At least 49 people died and 100 were injured because of the earthquake. At least  people died and  were injured because of the earthquake.
28 dallas The earthquake triggered a tsunami, which affected a 200 km stretch of the coast. The earthquake triggered a tsunami, which affected a  km stretch of the coast.
29 dallas The Cihuatlan-Manzanillo area, Colima, was more severely affected than other areas. The Cihuatlan-Manzanillo area, , was more severely affected than other areas.
30 dallas The earthquake could be felt in Mexico City and in high-rise buildings in Dallas and Houston. The earthquake could be felt in   and in high-rise buildings in  and .
31 dallas The intensities in Colima and Jalisco reached MM VI. The intensities in  and  reached MM VI.
32 dallas Frances formed in the western Gulf of Mexico on September 8. formed in the western Gulf of  on  .
33 dallas It briefly drifted south, but then turned north and then northwest. It briefly drifted south, but then turned north and then northwest.
34 dallas It made landfall north of Corpus Christi, Texas on September 11 as a moderately strong tropical storm. It made landfall north of  ,  on   as a moderately strong tropical storm.
35 dallas It weakened to a tropical depression as it travelled north, and dissipated north of Dallas, Texas. It weakened to a tropical depression as it travelled north, and dissipated north of , .
36 dallas At least 29 people were killed, 300 injured, about 10,000 were left homeless, 2,005 houses were destroyed and 6,615  were damaged. At least  people were killed,  injured, about  were left homeless,  houses were destroyed and   were damaged.
37 dallas Most of the deaths and damage occurred in the Villa de Álvarez area of Colima. Most of the aths and damage occurred in the    area of .
38 dallas Extensive damage (rating VIII) occurred in  the city of Colima and in Tecomán. Extensive damage (rating ) occurred in  the city of  and in .
39 dallas Some deaths and damage occurred in the states of Jalisco and Michoacán and a few buildings were damaged as far away as Guanajuato and Morelos. Some deaths and damage occurred in the states of  and  and a few buildings were damaged as far away as  and .
40 dallas The quake was felt strongly (rating VI) in parts of Mexico City. The quake was felt strongly (rating VI) in parts of  .
41 dallas It was also felt in most of Mexico and in the United States in Corpus Christi, Texas, Dallas, Texas and El Paso, Texas. It was also felt in most of  and in the   in  , , ,  and  , .
42 dallas Occupants of high-rise buildings in Houston, Texas also reported feeling its effects. Occupants of high-rise buildings in ,  also reported feeling its effects.
43 dallas Landslides closed a segment of the Colima-Guadalajara Highway and the port of Manzanillo. Landslides closed a segment of the Colima-Guadalajara Highway and the port of .
44 dallas Power and telephone outages occurred in Mexico City. Power and telephone outages occurred in  .
45 dallas A local tsunami of about 1 m (peak-to-trough) was recorded at Manzanillo. A local tsunami of about  m (peak-to-trough) was recorded at .
46 dallas A seiche was observed on Lake Pontchartrain in the US state of Louisiana, and sediment was stirred up in several Louisiana wells. A seiche was observed on   in the  state of , and sediment was stirred up in several  wells.
47 dallas Dallas, Texas; Shreveport, Louisiana; the New England region; and other areas have reported damage such as ruptured water lines and buckled roads. , ; , ; the   region; and other areas have reported damage such as ruptured water lines and buckled roads.
48 dallas The heat wave has been blamed for the damage. The heat wave has been blamed for the damage.
49 dallas Interstate 44 had two traffic lanes temporarily closed in Oklahoma City after they buckled under the heat. Interstate  had  traffic lanes temporarily closed in   after they buckled under the heat.
50 dallas In addition, overworked power transformers have been damaged or rendered useless because of the heat, resulting in blackouts, notably in St. Louis, Missouri; Queens, New York; Los Angeles, California; and the Delaware Valley. In addition, overworked power transformers have been damaged or rendered useless because of the heat, resulting in blackouts, notably in  , ; ,  ;  , ; and the  .
51 dallas Some wildfires, including forest fires, and greater thunderstorm intensity, have both been blamed on the heat wave. Some wildfires, including forest fires, and greater thunderstorm intensity, have both been blamed on the heat wave.
52 dallas Early on the morning of February 5, a squall line developed across eastern Texas northward into Missouri and moved east towards the high risk area. Early on the morning of  , a squall line developed across eastern  northward into  and moved east towards the high risk area.
53 dallas Ahead of the squall line, the cap took longer than expected to break, but when it finally did in the late afternoon hours, numerous supercell thunderstorms quickly formed across Arkansas and southern Missouri. Ahead of the squall line, the cap took longer than expected to break, but when it finally did in the late afternoon , numerous supercell thunderstorms quickly formed across  and southern .
54 dallas The first tornadoes touched down around 3:30 pm CST (2130 UTC). The  tornadoes touched down around 3:30 pm CST ( UTC).
55 dallas A cap is a layer of relatively warm air aloft (usually several thousand feet above the ground) which suppresses or delays the development of thunderstorms; the cap often prevents or delays thunderstorm development even in the presence of extreme instability. A cap is a layer of relatively warm air aloft (usually several  feet above the ground) which suppresses or delays the development of thunderstorms; the cap often prevents or delays thunderstorm development even in the presence of extreme instability.
56 dallas However, if the cap is removed or weakened, then explosive thunderstorm development can occur. However, if the cap is removed or weakened, then explosive thunderstorm development can occur.
57 dallas Some of the most powerful tornado producing supercells were situated across the Memphis and Jackson areas, as well as central Arkansas (one producing a tornado that tracked 122 miles (196 km) and lasting about two hours) between 5:00 and 7:30 pm CST (2300 to 0130 UTC) while numerous other tornadoes were reported across northern Mississippi northwest of Tupelo, Mississippi early in the evening. Some of the most powerful tornado producing supercells were situated across the  and  areas, as well as central  ( producing a tornado that tracked  miles ( km) and lasting   ) between 5:00 and 7:30 pm CST ( to  UTC) while numerous other tornadoes were reported across northern  northwest of ,  early in the evening.
58 dallas As the evening progressed, one of these supercells traveled across Middle Tennessee including the Nashville metropolitan area and south-central Kentucky, where several deadly tornadoes were reported during the evening hours between 7:30 pm and 11:00 pm CST (0130 to 0500 UTC). As the evening progressed,  of these supercells traveled across   including the  metropolitan area and south-central , where several deadly tornadoes were reported during the evening  between 7:30 pm and 11:00 pm CST ( to  UTC).
59 dallas Meanwhile, the squall line that developed from near Dallas to Kansas City moved eastward throughout the late evening and overnight hours causing numerous reports of damaging wind along with many spin-up tornadoes from Louisiana to Ohio and Indiana. Meanwhile, the squall line that developed from near  to   moved eastward throughout the late evening and overnight  causing numerous reports of damaging wind along with many spin-up tornadoes from  to  and .
60 dallas It then moved through the southeast U.S. during the early morning hours. It then moved through the southeast  during the early morning .
61 dallas Additional strong thunderstorms developed ahead of the front across the southeast during the overnight and early morning hours. Additional strong thunderstorms developed ahead of the front across the southeast during the overnight and early morning .
62 dallas A record (at the time) of five tornado emergency declarations were issued on February 5; four for Tennessee, and one in Alabama. A record (at the time) of  tornado emergency declarations were issued on  ;  for , and  in .
63 dallas The storm was so intense that it wrapped warm air around the north and west side of it and cold air and snow blew in from the south. The storm was so intense that it wrapped warm air around the north and west side of it and cold air and snow blew in from the south.
64 dallas Rochester, Minnesota, in the northern half of the storm, saw rain with temperatures in the mid 30's Fahrenheit while snow was falling just to the west in a  band stretching from Canada south to at least Dallas, Texas, giving that region its first "White Christmas" since 1929. , , in the northern half of the storm, saw rain with temperatures in the mid 's Fahrenheit while snow was falling just to the west in a  band stretching from  south to at least , , giving that region its  "White " since .
65 dallas Interstate 29 was completely closed in North and South Dakota, and then in stretches into Missouri. Interstate  was completely closed in  and  , and then in stretches into .
66 dallas On May 9, 2006, a storm producing 2 tornadoes swept across Anna, with the first tornado (F0) passing 2.5 miles east of the high school barely missing the incorporated city limits. On    a storm producing  tornadoes swept across  with the  tornado (F0) passing .5 miles east of the high school barely missing the incorporated city limits.
67 dallas The tornado (F3) touched down in neighboring unincorporated Westminster, Texas and Whitewright, Texas, destroying many homes and killing 3. The tornado (F) touched down in neighboring unincorporated ,  and , , destroying many homes and killing .
68 dallas During the disaster, several volunteers from Collin County Amateur Radio Services worked with the National Weather Service in a Skywarn net. During the disaster, several volunteers from      worked with the    in a Skywarn net.
69 dallas Anna Police and Fire Departments along with the American Red Cross opened Anna High School up as a shelter to the "walking wounded" and anyone who needed a place to stay due to the road blockages and damage in that area. and Fire Departments along with the    opened    up as a shelter to the "walking wounded" and anyone who needed a place to stay due to the road blockages and damage in that area.
70 dallas The tornadoes could be seen from Anna, Van Alstyne, and Melissa and power was knocked out to several homes in the area. The tornadoes could be seen from ,  , and  and power was knocked out to several homes in the area.
71 dallas Sirens sounded for Anna residents twice, giving people time to take shelter and prepare for the storm. Sirens sounded for  residents twice, giving people time to take shelter and prepare for the storm.
72 dallas Media and many of the volunteers from around the Dallas/Fort Worth area set up in Anna. Media and many of the volunteers from around the   area set up in .
73 dallas Another major tornado event struck the densely populated areas of the Dallas–Fort Worth Metroplex on March 28, 2000 when F3 tornadoes struck Downtown Fort Worth as well as Arlington killing at least 3 and injuring dozens of people while damaging or destroying several structures including several office towers. Another major tornado event struck the densely populated areas of the –   on    when F tornadoes struck    as well as  killing at least  and injuring dozens of people while damaging or destroying several structures including several office towers.
74 dallas Additional tornadoes that touched down near the Metroplex area the following morning in Fort Worth and other areas but no additional fatalities were reported. Additional tornadoes that touched down near  Metroplex area    in   and or areas but no additional fatalities were reported.
75 dallas The tornado was heavily documented and photographed by several eye-witnesses as it was clearly visible throughout most of its 17-mile path through residential and commercial areas of Dallas up to near Love Field Airport. The tornado was heavily documented and photographed by several eye-witnesses as it was clearly visible throughout most of its 17-mile path through residential and commercial areas of  up to near   .
76 dallas At that time, it was the most observed tornado ever. At that time, it was the most observed tornado ever.
77 dallas A researcher from the Severe Weather Forecast Unit in Kansas City noticed that several old theories were proven false during the Dallas tornado. A researcher from the     in   noticed that several old theories were proven false during the  tornado.
78 dallas One of the theories was that all air and debris flow inward into the funnel and then upward, but on the outside edges of the funnel debris and people were even lifted. of the theories was that all air and debris flow inward into the funnel and then upward, but on the outside edges of the funnel debris and people were even lifted.
79 dallas WFAA-TV in Dallas produced a 30-minute documentary about the tornado about one week later. in  produced a  documentary  the tornado    .
80 dallas At around 3:00 PM CST, the first tornadoes touched down north of the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex area. At around 3:00 PM CST, the  tornadoes touched down north of the    area.
81 dallas At around 4:30 CST, a tornado touched down in southern Dallas County (south of modern-day Interstate 20) and traveled northward for about 45 minutes through the Dallas neighborhoods of Oak Cliff, Kessler Park, West Dallas (just west of Downtown Dallas) and Love Field before lifting over Bachman Lake (west of Dallas Love Field Airport) just after 5:00 PM CST. At around 4:30 CST, a tornado touched down in southern   (south of modern-day Interstate ) and traveled northward for    through the  neighborhoods of  ,  ,   (just west of  ) and   before lifting over   (west of    ) just after 5:00 PM CST.
82 dallas Ten people were killed and 200 others injured by the F3 tornado; damage was estimated at around $4 million (in 1957 dollars). people were killed and  others injured by the F3 tornado; damage was estimated at around $4 million (in  dollars).
83 dallas Nearly 600 structures were damaged including over 100 homes and a dozen apartment buildings. Nearly  structures were damaged including over  homes and a  apartment buildings.
84 dallas Some businesses and schools were also damaged but the Parkland Memorial Hospital was narrowly spared by the tornado as was the Dallas Love Field Airport. Some businesses and schools were also damaged but the Parkland Memorial Hospital was narrowly spared by the tornado as was the    .
85 dallas Another tornado in Collin County north of the city also caused extensive damage. Another tornado in   north of the city also caused extensive damage.
86 dallas The "April 1957 Dallas tornado outbreak" was a deadly tornado outbreak that struck most of the Southern United States from April 2 to the early hours of April 4, 1957. The "   tornado outbreak" was a deadly tornado outbreak that struck most      from   to       .
87 dallas The outbreak was most notable due to a tornado that hit a densely populated area of the Dallas Metropolitan area, while other deadly tornadoes struck portions of Mississippi, Texas, and Oklahoma. The outbreak was most notable due to a tornado that hit a densely populated area of the  Metropolitan area, while other deadly tornadoes struck portions of , , and .
88 dallas The two-day outbreak killed at least 19 across 3 states and produced 50 tornadoes from Texas to Tennessee. The  outbreak killed at least  across  states and produced  tornadoes from  to .
89 dallas The "April 1994 tornado outbreak" was a widespread tornado outbreak that affected much of the Central and Southern Plains of the United States as well as the Midwest and the Deep South from Colorado to New York from April 25 to April 27, 1994. The "  tornado outbreak" was a widespread tornado outbreak that affected much of the Central and   of the   as well as the  and the Deep South from  to   from   to   .
90 dallas The entire outbreak killed at least six people across two states from two different F4 tornadoes near Dallas, Texas and Lafayette, Indiana. The entire outbreak killed at least  people across  states from  different F4 tornadoes near ,  and , .
91 dallas Several storm thunderstorm cells known as supercells were responsible for most of the tornadoes during the event. Several storm thunderstorm cells known as supercells were responsible for most of the tornadoes during the event.
92 dallas Several scattered strong storms/supercells developed during the afternoon and late-evening hours on April 25. Several scattered strg storms/supercells developed during the afterno and late-evening    .
93 dallas The most notable storm of the day produced several tornadoes across the Dallas-Fort Worth area. The most notable storm of   produced several tornadoes across    area.
94 dallas The first tornado touchdown in the Fort Worth area but caused little if any damage. The  tornado touchdown in the   area but caused little if any damage.
95 dallas An F2 tornado shortly caused extensive damage to the town of DeSoto in Dallas County. An F2 tornado shortly caused extensive damage to the town of DeSoto in  .
96 dallas Numerous structures were destroyed and the City Hall itself sustained major damage that totaled about $50 million. Numerous structures were destroyed and the City Hall itself sustained major damage that totaled about $50 million.
97 dallas No fatalities were reported by this tornado. No fatalities were reported by this tornado.
98 dallas However, further east, the same storm intensified and produced a violent F4 tornado that traveled through the Lancaster area killing 3 and injured nearly 50 others while destroying much of the historic downtown square. However, further east, the same storm intensified and produced a violent F4 tornado that traveled through the  area killing  and injured nearly  others while destroying much of the historic downtown square.
99 dallas In addition to the tornadoes, extensive hail was recorded across much of the Metroplex region. In addition to the tornadoes, extensive hail was recorded across much of the Metroplex region.
100 dallas Total tornado and hail figures in Texas alone on this date was estimated at $300 million. Total tornado and hail figures in  alone on this date was estimated at $300 million.
101 dallas What was initially believed to be a wind and hail event from reliable models and forecast unexpectedly developed into a locally significant tornado outbreak as a result of changing mesoscale situations, concentrated on the heavily populated Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex. What was initially believed to be a wind and hail event from reliable models and forecast unexpectedly developed into a locally significant tornado outbreak as a result of changing mesoscale situations, concentrated on the heavily populated   .
102 dallas That development was attributed to an outflow boundary from another area of storms farther north in Oklahoma that tracked southward across the Red River and into the Metroplex where it stalled just south of the Interstate 20 corridor in the southern suburbs, allowing discrete supercells to form along the boundary. That development was attributed to an outflow boundary from another area of storms farther north in  that tracked southward across the   and into the  where it stalled just south of the Interstate  corridor in the southern suburbs, allowing discrete supercells to form along the boundary.
103 dallas The boundary increased low-level wind shear significantly due to easterly winds, allowing for tornadoes to develop. The boundary increased low-level wind shear significantly due to easterly winds, allowing for tornadoes to develop.
104 dallas As a result, taking advantage of the highly unstable environment that became much more highly sheared than initially forecasted with high CAPE values, the storms became much more intense than forecasted and quickly became tornadic and intense, resulting in severe damage across the region in heavily populated areas. As a result, taking advantage of the highly unstable environment that became much more highly sheared than initially forecasted with high CAPE values, the storms became much more intense than forecasted and quickly became tornadic and intense, resulting in severe damage across the region in heavily populated areas.
105 dallas South of the boundary, shear was much more marginal and tornadoes did not develop. South of the boundary, shear was much more marginal and tornadoes did not develop.
106 dallas Once the cells tracked eastward towards Louisiana, the atmosphere was much more stable and the cells rapidly weakened. the cells tracked eastward towards , the atmosphere was much more stable and the cells rapidly weakened.
107 dallas The "April 3, 2012 tornado outbreak" was a tornado outbreak across a portion of the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex. The "   tornado outbreak" was a tornado outbreak across a portion of the   .
108 dallas Several strong to mostly weak tornadoes touched down near Dallas and Fort Worth and points east. Several strong to mostly weak tornadoes touched down near  and   and points east.
109 dallas This included an EF3 in Forney, Texas which devastated the Diamond Creek subdivision and a school in town. This included an EF3 in ,  which devastated the   subdivision and a school in town.
110 dallas It was estimated on April 5 that over 1,100 homes were damaged in the outbreak, including at least 349 that were destroyed. It was estimated on   that over  homes were damaged in the outbreak, including at least  that were destroyed.
111 dallas Remarkably, despite hitting heavily populated areas, no one was killed and very few people were injured. Remarkably, despite hitting heavily populated areas, no  was killed and very few people were injured.
112 dallas One Dallas-based company offers "holographic mylar" trees in many hues. company offers "holographic mylar" trees in many hues.
113 dallas Tree-shaped objects made from such materials as cardboard, glass, ceramic or other materials can be found in use as tabletop decorations. Tree-shaped objects made from such materials as cardboard, glass, ceramic or other materials can be found in use as tabletop decorations.
114 dallas Upside-down artificial Christmas trees were originally introduced as a marketing gimmick; they allowed consumers to get closer to ornaments for sale in retail stores as well as opened up floor space for more products. Upside-down artificial  trees were originally introduced as a marketing gimmick; they allowed consumers to get closer to ornaments for sale in retail stores as well as opened up floor space for more products.
115 dallas There were three varieties of upside-down trees, those bolted to the ceiling, stand alone trees with a base, and half-trees bolted to walls. There were  varieties of upside-down trees, those bolted to the ceiling, stand alone trees with a base, and half-trees bolted to walls.
116 dallas The Austin Chalk consists of recrystalized, fossiliferous, interbedded chalks and marls. The   consists of recrystalized, fossiliferous, interbedded chalks and marls.
117 dallas Exposures of Austin Chalk are mainly seen in quarries, roadcuts, and stream beds where the water eroded the soil. Exposures of   are mainly seen in quarries, roadcuts, and stream beds where the water eroded the soil.
118 dallas The Austin Chalk outcrops and can be seen throughout Dallas, and extends south underneath I-35 down into Austin and San Antonio. The   outcrops and can be seen throughout , and extends south underneath  down into  and  .
119 dallas Volcanic ash layers are present in the Austin chalk, and were deposited by wind from distant erupting volcanoes around 86 mya. Volcanic ash layers are  in the  chalk, and were deposited by wind from distant erupting volcanoes around  mya.
120 dallas These eruptions occurred along a 250-mile long by 50 mile wide belt of submarine volcanoes, which are located in present day south-central Texas. These eruptions occurred along a 2-mile long by  mile wide belt of submarine volcanoes, which are located in   south-central .
121 dallas This belt of volcanoes coincides with the trend of the Balcones Fault zone and is known as the Balcones volcanic province. This belt of volcanoes coincides with the trend of the  Fault zone and is known as the  volcanic province.
122 dallas Evidence of these ancient volcanoes is only visible in a few places since most were buried by the Austin and Taylor Group, and now are in the subsurface. Evidence of these ancient volcanoes is only visible in a few places since most were buried by the  and  , and  are in the subsurface.
123 dallas The presence of this volcanism during deposition of the Austin Chalk is correlated with the Laramide orogeny. The presence of this volcanism during deposition of the   is correlated with the  orogeny.
124 dallas Sea level rose for conditions to be right for the deposition of the Austin Chalk, which also coincides with the maximum extent of the Cretaceous Interior Seaway. Sea level rose for conditions to be right for the deposition of the  , which also coincides with the maximum extent of the Cretaceous Interior Seaway.
125 dallas The depths of the deposition of the Austin Chalk occurred in ~250 m or 820 ft of water. The depths of the deposition of the Austin Chalk occurred in ~ m or  ft of water.
126 dallas The Austin Chalk is filled with micro-organism fossils known as coccoliths. The Austin Chalk is filled with micro-organism fossils known as coccoliths.
127 dallas "Balcones Fault" was a 1970s comedic Dixieland jazz band from Austin, Texas who took their name after the Balcones Fault zone in southwest-central Texas. "Balcones Fault" was a  comedic  jazz band from ,  who took their name after the Balcones Fault zone in southwest-central .
128 dallas Balcones Fault appeared frequently at the Armadillo World Headquarters. Balcones Fault appeared frequently at the Armadillo World Headquarters.
129 dallas The band appeared on the PBS music television program Austin City Limits in 1976 and produced one album on the Cream label, titled "It's All Balcones Fault" in 1977. The band appeared on the PBS music television program  City Limits in  and produced  album on the Cream label, titled "It's All Balcs Fault" in .
130 dallas the album title was taken from a Dallas radio show script written by Peter Nye, who played trombone with the band in 1975. the album title was taken from a  radio show script written by  , who played trombone with the band in .
131 dallas The Fort Worth Basin and Bend Arch lie entirely within north central Texas covering an area of . The    and Bend Arch lie entirely within north central  covering an area of .
132 dallas The southern and eastern boundaries are defined by county lines that generally follow the Ouachita structural front, although a substantial portion of this structural feature is included near Dallas. The southern and eastern boundaries are defined by county lines that generally follow the  structural front, although a substantial portion of this structural feature is included near .
133 dallas The north boundary follows the Texas-Oklahoma State line in the east, where the province includes parts of the Sherman Basin and Muenster Arch. The north boundary follows the   line in the east, where the province includes parts of the   and  .
134 dallas In the west, the north boundary follows the north-east county lines of Oklahoma's three southwestern counties (Harmon, Jackson and Tillman Counties), which include the south flank of the Wichita Mountains and the Hollis Basin. In the west, the north boundary follows the north-east county lines of 's  southwestern counties (,  and  ), which include the south flank of the   and the  .
135 dallas The western boundary trends north-south along county lines defining the junction with the Permian Basin where part of the eastern shelf of the Permian Basin lies in Province 045. The western boundary trends north-south along county lines defining the junction with the   where part of the eastern shelf of the   lies in Province .
136 dallas The "Austin chalk" limestone uplift on which most of Cedar Hill is spread is covered with "gumbo"-cleche-clay topsoil from a few inches to many feet. The "Austin chalk" limestone uplift on which most of   is spread is covered with "gumbo"-cleche-clay topsoil from a few inches to many feet.
137 dallas The western edge of the city, primarily the Lake Ridge neighborhood, falls below the limestone uplift on the Eagle Ford shale strata surrounding Joe Pool Lake. The western edge of the city, primarily the   neighborhood, falls below the limestone uplift on the Eagle Ford shale strata surrounding   .
138 dallas Home foundation problems—similar to those in Irving's Las Colinas neighborhood to the north and built on the same strata—await those who fail to take precautions in building on expansive soil lying over the Eagle Ford formation. Home foundation problems—similar to those in 's   neighborhood to the north and built on the same strata—await those who fail to take precautions in building on expansive soil lying over the   formation.
139 dallas As noted in the demographics below (and like some of the cities immediately surrounding it such as Duncanville and DeSoto), the city is significantly diverse compared to other cities around Dallas which tend to be predominantly of one ethnic origin or another. As noted in the demographics below (and like some of the cities immediately surrounding it such as  and DeSoto), the city is significantly diverse compared to other cities around  which tend to be predominantly of  ethnic origin or another.
140 dallas In the last few years, the city has been booming with new construction as urban sprawl spreads south of Dallas. In    ,  city has been booming with new construction as urban sprawl spreads south of .
141 dallas Being mostly farm and ranch land, the terrain is largely open fields on flat-to-gently-rolling terrain. Being mostly farm and ranch land, the terrain is largely open fields on flat-to-gently-rolling terrain.
142 dallas The ambient air temperature is typically 4 to 6 °F cooler than Dallas  south. The ambient air temperature is typically  to  F cooler than   south.
143 dallas "Chorioactis geaster" has a disjunct distribution, and has only been collected from Texas and Japan. "Chorioactis geaster" has a disjunct distribution, and has only been collected from  and .
144 dallas The first reported collection in Japan was in Kyushu in 1937, and then it was not collected again in that location until thirty-six years later. The  reported collection in  was in  in , and then it was not collected again in that location until   .
145 dallas In 2006, it was observed in a humid forest near Kawakami, Nara Prefecture. In , it was observed in a humid forest near ,  .
146 dallas The fungus's natural habitat in Japan is disappearing because of the practice of deforestation and replanting with Japanese cedar ("Cryptomeria japonica"). The fungus's natural habitat in  is disappearing because of the practice of deforestation and replanting with ese cedar ("Cryptomeria japonica").
147 dallas This rare mushroom has been put on the list of threatened species in Japan. This rare mushroom has been put on the list of threatened species in .
148 dallas In Texas, the fungus has been reported in Collin County, Hays, Travis, Dallas, Denton, Guadalupe, Tarrant and Hunt Counties. In , the fungus has been reported in  , , , , , , Tarrant and Hunt Counties.
149 dallas Travis, Hays, and Guadalupe counties are in central Texas, while the remainder are clustered together in the northeastern part of the state. , , and  counties are in central , while the remainder are clustered together in the northeastern part of the state.
150 dallas Although the species is considered rare due to its globally restricted distribution, it may be locally abundant. Although the species is considered rare due to its globally restricted distribution, it may be locally abundant.
151 dallas Although it is not known definitively, "Chorioactis" is believed to be saprobic, deriving nutrients from decomposing organic matter. Although it is not known definitively, "Chorioactis" is believed to be saprobic, deriving nutrients from decomposing organic matter.
152 dallas In Texas, fruit bodies are found growing singly or in groups from roots, stumps, and dead roots of cedar elm trees ("Ulmus crassifolia") or "Symplocos myrtacea"; in Japan, the usual host is dead oak trees. In , fruit bodies are found growing singly or in groups from roots, stumps, and dead roots of cedar elm trees ("Ulmus crassifolia") or "Symplocos myrtacea"; in , the usual host is dead oak trees.
153 dallas Fruit bodies can be clustered together close to the base of the stump, or from the roots away from the stump; the stem of the fruit body tends to originate from a point  below the ground. Fruit bodies can be clustered together close to the base of the stump, or from the roots away from the stump; the stem of the fruit body tends to originate from a point  below the ground.
154 dallas In Texas, fruit bodies usually appear between October and April, as this period is associated with somewhat cooler weather, and the temperature and moisture conditions during this time seem to be more favorable for growth. In , fruit bodies usually appear between   , as this period is associated with somewhat cooler weather,  the temperature  moisture conditions during this time seem to be more favorable for growth.
155 dallas Other gimmicks have developed as well. Other gimmicks have developed as well.
156 dallas Fiber optic Christmas trees come in two major varieties; one resembles a traditional Christmas tree. Fiber optic  trees come in  major varieties;  resembles a traditional  tree.
157 dallas One Dallas-based company offers "holographic mylar" trees in many hues. company offers "holographic mylar" trees in many hues.
158 dallas Tree-shaped objects made from such materials as cardboard, glass, ceramic or other materials can be found in use as tabletop decorations. Tree-shaped objects made from such materials as cardboard, glass, ceramic or other materials can be found in use as tabletop decorations.
159 dallas Upside-down artificial Christmas trees became popular for a short time and were originally introduced as a marketing gimmick; they allowed consumers to get closer to ornaments for sale in retail stores and opened up floor space for more products. Upside-down artificial  trees became popular for a short time and were originally introduced as a marketing gimmick; they allowed consumers to get closer to ornaments for sale in retail stores and opened up floor space for more products.
160 dallas In Dallas, one study projects that by 2050 heat-related deaths during a typical summer could triple, from about 35 heat-related deaths per summer to over 100 (although increased air conditioning used during these periods may not have been accounted for). In ,  study projects that by  heat-related deaths during a typical  could triple, from about  heat-related deaths per  to over  (although increased air conditioning used during these periods may not have been accounted for).
161 dallas Winter-related deaths are expected to change very little. Winter-related deaths are expected to change very little.
162 dallas The elderly, particularly those living alone, are at greatest risk. The elderly, particularly those living alone, are at greatest risk.
163 dallas The city of Dallas has a humid, hot climate and is often prone to storms (severe or not) (Köppen climate classification Cfa), though it is located in a region that also tends to receive warm, dry winds from the north and west in the summer, bringing temperatures about  at times and heat-humidity indexes soaring to as high as . The city of  has a humid, hot climate and is often prone to storms (severe or not) (Köppen climate classification ), though it is located in a region that also tends to receive warm, dry winds from the north and west in the , bringing temperatures about  at times and heat-humidity indexes soaring to as high as .
164 dallas A couple of times each year, warm and humid air from the south overrides cold, dry air, leading to freezing rain, which often causes major disruptions in the city if the roads and highways become slick. A couple of times each year, warm and humid air from the south overrides cold, dry air, leading to freezing rain, which often causes major disruptions in the city if the roads and highways become slick.
165 dallas On the other hand, daytime highs above  are not unusual during the winter season. On the other hand, daytime highs above  are not unusual during the  season.
166 dallas In sum, extremes in weather are more readily seen in Dallas and Texas as a whole than along the Pacific and Atlantic coasts, due to the state's location in the interior of the United States. In sum, extremes in weather are more readily seen in  and  as a whole than along the  and  coasts, due to the state's location in the interior of the  .
167 dallas Spring and autumn bring pleasant weather to the area. and  bring pleasant weather to the area.
168 dallas Vibrant wildflowers (such as the bluebonnet, Indian paintbrush and other flora) bloom in spring and are planted around the highways throughout Texas. Vibrant wildflowers (such as the bluebonnet,  paintbrush and other flora) bloom in  and are planted around the highways throughout .
169 dallas Springtime weather can be quite volatile, but temperatures themselves are mild. Springtime weather can be quite volatile, but temperatures themselves are mild.
170 dallas The weather in Dallas is also generally pleasant between late September and early December, and unlike springtime, major storms rarely form in the area. The weather in  is also generally pleasant between   and  , and unlike springtime, major storms rarely form in the area.
171 dallas Since Dallas lies at the lower end of the "Tornado Alley", tornadoes are perhaps the biggest threat to the city. Since  lies at the lower end of the "Tornado Alley", tornadoes are perhaps the biggest threat to the city.
172 dallas Dallas was hit by a powerful tornado on 2 April 1957. was hit by a powerful tornado on   .
173 dallas The tornado would have likely been an F3. The tornado would have likely been an F3.
174 dallas On March 28, 2000, the “Fort Worth Tornado” impacted Dallas's neighbor Fort Worth's downtown, and a tornado in Arlington, Texas also occurred that day damaging some homes. On    the “  Tornado” impacted 's neighbor  's downtown and a tornado in   also occurred that  damaging some homes.
175 dallas That day was the Metroplex's most damaging tornado outbreak since the 1957 event. That  was the 's most damaging tornado outbreak since the  event.
176 dallas Another widespread tornado outbreak struck the area in the Dallas tornado outbreak of April 3, 2012, slightly damaging Rangers Ballpark in Arlington and damaging some planes and grounding the others at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport and Dallas Love Field, heavily damaging an elementary school, and destroying semis in a facility. Another widespread tornado outbreak struck the area in the  tornado outbreak of    slightly damaging   in  and damaging some planes and grounding the others at -Fort    and    heavily damaging an elementary school and destroying semis in a facility.
177 dallas Unlike Dallas, Houston is not in Tornado Alley. Unlike ,  is not in Tornado Alley.
178 dallas Smaller tornadoes can occur during severe weather. Smaller tornadoes can occur during severe weather.
179 dallas They are most likely to be found along frontal boundaries of an air mass during the spring months. They are most likely to be found along frontal boundaries of an air mass during the  .
180 dallas Tornadoes in Houston usually measure a weak F1 on the old Fujita scale, and cause light to moderate damage to well-constructed buildings. Tornadoes in  usually measure a weak F1 on the old  scale, and cause light to moderate damage to well-constructed buildings.
181 dallas The strongest recorded tornado in Houston history was an F4 on November 21, 1992, part of a large outbreak of tornadoes. The strongest recorded tornado in  history was an F4 on    part of a large outbreak of tornadoes.
182 dallas The worst cold snap to occur statewide occurred during the last half of December in 1983. The worst cold snap to occur statewide occurred durg       .
183 dallas Four stations recorded their longest continuous readings at or below  on record. stations recorded their longest continuous readings at or below  on record.
184 dallas At Austin, Texas, the temperature remained at or below freezing for 139 hours. At , , the temperature remained at or below freezing for  .
185 dallas At Abilene, Texas, the period at or below freezing totaled 202 hours. At , , the period at or below freezing totaled  .
186 dallas Lubbock, Texas saw temperatures at or below freezing for 207 hours. ,  saw temperatures at or below freezing for  .
187 dallas The Dallas-Fort Worth airport measured temperatures at or below freezing for a total of 296 consecutive hours. The   airport measured temperatures at or below freezing for a total of  consecutive .
188 dallas Snow which fell on December 14 and December 15 across northern Texas stayed on the ground until New Year's Day of 1984. Snow which fell on   and   across northern  stayed on the ground until     .
189 dallas The Model “S”, here as illustrated in 1924, is an example of an early model convection space heater, by the Sala Heater & Mantel Co. in  Dallas, Texas. The Model “S”, here as illustrated in , is an example of an early model convection space heater, by the      in  , .
190 dallas The Model "S" was considered to be highly efficient radiant type of gas heater at the time. The Model "S" was considered to be highly efficient radiant type of gas heater at the time.
191 dallas The heater utilizes radiant heat, and, by virtue of draft construction, supplements its power by drawing cold air through the facing, heating it and forcing it into the room through the register. The heater utilizes radiant heat, and, by virtue of draft construction, supplements its power by drawing cold air through the facing, heating it and forcing it into the room through the register.
192 dallas This not only forces the circulation that provides an even warmth in every section of the room, but enables the heater to operate at all times with a perfectly cool exterior. This not only forces the circulation that provides an even warmth in every section of the room, but enables the heater to operate at all times with a perfectly cool exterior.
193 dallas Positive circulation provides an even warmth throughout the room, and guarantees a clean, humid, healthful air to occupants. Positive circulation provides an even warmth throughout the room, and guarantees a clean, humid, healthful air to occupants.
194 dallas The mixing chamber, due to its exclusive construction, utilizes centrifugal force to insure a perfect mixture between the gas and air, which in turn provides complete combustion, thus preventing dangerous fumes. The mixing chamber, due to its exclusive construction, utilizes centrifugal force to insure a perfect mixture between the gas and air, which in turn provides complete combustion, thus preventing dangerous fumes.
195 dallas After the gas leaves the mixing chamber it passes into a distribution chamber whose shape is such that an equal amount of gas passes into each jet, giving uniform flame height and intensity. After the gas leaves the mixing chamber it passes into a distribution chamber whose shape is such that an equal amount of gas passes into each jet, giving uniform flame height and intensity.
196 dallas Dallas has a humid subtropical climate, though it is located in a region that also tends to receive warm, dry winds from the north and west in the summer, bringing temperatures well over  at times and heat-humidity indexes soaring to as high as . has a humid subtropical climate, though it is located in a region that also tends to receive warm, dry winds from the north and west in the , bringing temperatures well over  at times and heat-humidity indexes soaring to as high as .
197 dallas When only temperature itself is accounted for, the north central Texas region where Dallas is located is one of the hottest in the United States during the summer months, usually trailing only the Mojave Desert basin of Arizona, southern Nevada, and southeastern California. When only temperature itself is accounted for, the north central  region where  is located is  of the hottest in the   during the  , usually trailing only the Mojave Desert basin of , southern , and southeastern .
198 dallas Winters in Dallas are generally mild, with normal daytime highs ranging from  to  and normal nighttime lows falling in between  and . in  are generally mild, with normal daytime highs ranging from  to  and normal nighttime lows falling in between  and .
199 dallas A day with clear, sunny skies, a high of , and a low of  would thus be a very typical one during the winter. with clear, sunny skies, a high of , and a low of  would thus be a very typical  during the .
200 dallas However, strong cold fronts known as "Blue Northers" sometimes pass through the Dallas region, plummeting nightly lows below  for up to a few days at a time and keeping daytime highs in a struggle to surpass . However, strong cold fronts known s "Blue Northers" sometimes pss through the  region, plummeting nightly lows below  for     dys t  time nd keeping dytime highs in  struggle  surpss .
201 dallas Snow accumulation is usually seen in the city at least once every winter, and snowfall generally occurs 1–2 days out of the year for an annual average of . Snow accumulation is usually seen in  city at least  every winter, and snowfall generally occurs –  out of   for an annual average of .
202 dallas Some areas in the region, however, receive more than that, while other areas receive negligible snowfall or none at all. Some areas in the region, however, receive more than that, while other areas receive negligible snowfall or none at all.
203 dallas A couple of times each winter in Dallas, warm and humid air from the south will override cold, dry air, resulting in freezing rain or ice and causing disruptions in the city if the roads and highways become slick. A couple of times each winter in , warm and humid air from the south will override cold, dry air, resulting in freezing rain or ice and causing disruptions in the city if the roads and highways become slick.
204 dallas On the other hand, daytime highs above  are not unusual and will occur at least several days each winter month—roughly the same number of days each December, January, and February that low temperatures fall below  or that high temperatures fail to reach . On the other hand, daytime highs above  are not unusual and will occur     each winter —roughly the same number of  each , , and  th low temperures fall below  or th high temperures fail to reach .
205 dallas Over the past 15 years, Dallas has averaged 31 annual nights at or below freezing, with the winter of 1999–2000 holding the all-time record as having the fewest freezing nights, with 14. Over    ,  has averaged  annual nights at or below freezing, with    – holding  all-time record as having  fewest freezing nights, with .
206 dallas During this same span of 15 years, the temperature in the region has only twice dropped below , though it will generally fall below  about once every other year. During this same span of  , the temperature in the region has only twice dropped below , though it will generally fall below  about  every other year.
207 dallas In sum, extremes and variations in winter weather are more readily seen in Dallas and Texas as a whole than along the Pacific and Atlantic coasts, due to the state's location in the interior of the North American continent and the lack of any mountainous terrain to the north to block out Arctic weather systems. In sum, extremes and variations in  weather are more readily seen in  and  as a whole than along the  and  coasts, due to the state's location in the interior of the   continent and the lack of any mountainous terrain to the north to block out  weather systems.
208 dallas Spring and autumn bring pleasant weather to the area. and  bring pleasant weather to the area.
209 dallas Vibrant wildflowers (such as the bluebonnet, Indian paintbrush and other flora) bloom in spring and are planted around the highways throughout Texas. Vibrant wildflowers (such as the bluebonnet,  paintbrush and other flora) bloom in  and are planted around the highways throughout .
210 dallas Springtime weather can be quite volatile, but temperatures themselves are mild. Springtime weather can be quite volatile, but temperatures themselves are mild.
211 dallas The weather in Dallas is also generally pleasant from late September to early December and on many winter days. The weather in  is also generally pleasant from   to   and on many  .
212 dallas Autumn often brings more storms and tornado threat, but usually fewer and less severe than in spring. often brings more storms and tornado threat, but usually fewer and less severe than in .
213 dallas The U.S. Department of Agriculture places Dallas in Plant Hardiness Zone 8a. The     places  in Plant Hardiness Zone 8a.
214 dallas However, mild winter temperatures in the past 15 to 20 years have encouraged the horticulture of some cold-sensitive plants such as "Washingtonia filifera" and "Washingtonia robusta" palms. However, mild  temperatures in       have encouraged  horticulture of some cold-sensitive plants such as "Washingnia filifera" and "Washingnia robusta" palms.
215 dallas According to the American Lung Association, Dallas has the 12th highest air pollution among U.S. cities, ranking it behind Los Angeles and Houston. According to the   ,  has the  highest air pollution among  cities, ranking it behind   and .
216 dallas Much of the air pollution in Dallas and the surrounding area comes from a hazardous materials incineration plant in the small town of Midlothian and from concrete installations in neighbouring Ellis County. Much of the air pollution in  and the surrounding area comes from a hazardous materials incineration plant in the small town of  and from concrete installations in neighbouring  .
217 dallas "Dallas Abbott" is a research scientist at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University and is part of the Holocene Impact Working Group. " " is a research scientist at the       and is part  the Holocene Impact Working Group.
218 dallas The primary focus of her present research is on submarine impact craters and their contribution to climate change and megatsunamis. The primary focus of her  research is on submarine impact craters and their contribution to climate change and megatsunamis.
219 dallas She also has presented research regarding a large impact crater in the Gulf of Maine. She also has presented research regarding a large impact crater in the   .
220 dallas On May 2, 2009, the Dallas Cowboys' practice facility collapsed during a wind storm. On   009 the  ' practice facility collapsed during a wind storm.
221 dallas The collapse left twelve Cowboys players and coaches injured. The collapse left  Cowboys players and coaches injured.
222 dallas The most serious injuries were special teams coach Joe DeCamillis, who suffered fractured cervical vertebrae and had surgery to stabilize fractured vertebrae in his neck, and Rich Behm, the team's 33-year-old scouting assistant, who was permanently paralyzed from the waist down after his spine was severed. The most serious injuries were special teams coach  , who suffered fractured cervical vertebrae and had surgery to stabilize fractured vertebrae in his neck, and  , the team's  scouting assistant, who was permanently paralyzed from the waist down after his spine was severed.
223 dallas Dallas Peck was an authority on volcanoes who served as director of the U.S. Geological Survey from 1981 to 1993. was an authority on volcanoes who served as direcr of the    from   .
224 dallas He spent his entire career at the U.S. Geological Survey, starting in 1951. He spent his entire career at the   , starting in .
225 dallas Peck worked in California and Hawaii before moving to the Washington, D.C. area in 1966. worked in  and  before moving to the ,  area in .
226 dallas He was chief of the geologic division from 1977 until he was appointed director of the survey. He was chief of the geologic division from  until he was appointed director of the survey.
227 dallas During his tenure, he expanded the scope of the survey's work on mineral resources, global change, water quality and mapping. During his tenure, he expanded the scope of the survey's work on mineral resources, global change, water quality and mapping.
228 dallas The distribution system of Dallas Water Utilities (DWU) is one of the largest in the United States. The distribution system of    (DWU) is  of the largest in the  .
229 dallas As of June 2003, DWU provided retail water service to just over 1.2 million people within the Dallas city limits. As of  , DWU provided retail water service to just over   people within the  city limits.
230 dallas The major distribution system facilities include 28 pump stations (including the high service pump stations at the three water treatment plants), 11 ground storage reservoirs, 9 elevated tanks, and 78 vault structures separate from the major facilities, in addition to over  of distribution and transmission main. The major distribution system facilities include  pump stations (including the high service pump stations at the  water treatment plants),  ground storage reservoirs,  elevated tanks, and  vault structures separate from the major facilities, in addition to over  of distribution and transmission main.
231 dallas The distribution system is divided into 17 pressure zones to maintain adequate water pressures throughout the system. The distribution system is divided into  pressure zones to maintain adequate water pressures throughout the system.
232 dallas There are four major pressure zones (Central Low, North High, East High, and South High), and five smaller secondary pressure zones (Meandering Way High, Red Bird High, Trinity Heights, Pleasant Grove, and Cedardale) which comprise most of the Dallas service area. There are  major pressure zones ( , North ,  , and South ), and  smaller secondary pressure zones (Meandering Way ,   ,  , Pleasant Grove, and Cedardale) which comprise most of the  service area.
233 dallas Each of the nine major and secondary pressure zones are supplied by one or more pump stations and have elevated or ground storage facilities that establish the static hydraulic gradient for each zone. Each of the  major and secondary pressure zs are supplied by  or more pump stations and have elevated or ground storage facilities that establish the static hydraulic gradient for each z.
234 dallas The remaining eight pressure zones are supplied from an adjacent pressure zone via pressure reducing valve, or single, small booster pump station. The remaining  pressure zones are supplied from an adjacent pressure zone via pressure reducing valve, or single, small booster pump station.
235 dallas These pressure zones do not have storage facilities that establish their static hydraulic gradient. These pressure zones do not have storage facilities that establish their static hydraulic gradient.
236 dallas Dallas has a humid subtropical climate that is local to all of Georgia. has a humid subtropical climate that is local to all of .
237 dallas The average yearly precipitation is . The average yearly precipitation is .
238 dallas Snow flurries occasionally fall in the winter months, when there is the presence of a deep trough in the jet stream over the eastern third of the United States. Snow flurries occasionally fall in the  , when there is the presence of a deep trough in the jet stream over the eastern  of the  .
239 dallas Although at times significant amounts of snowfall have been recorded, some years have no measurable snowfall. Although at times significant amounts of snowfall have been recorded, some  have no measurable snowfall.
240 dallas The Storm of the Century (1993) in March 1993 brought 17.5 inches to Dallas, with drifts measuring several feet. The Storm of   () in   brought  inches to , with drifts measuring several feet.
241 dallas Drought is frequent in Dallas, as well as the rest of the Southeastern United States. Drought is frequent in , as well as the rest of the   .
242 dallas The coldest temperature ever recorded in Dallas was -12F(-24C) in 2010. The coldest temperature ever recorded in  was F(C) in .
243 dallas The warmest temperature ever recorded was 104F(40C) in 1980 and again in 2007. The warmest temperature ever recorded was 104F(40C) in  and again in .
244 dallas ""Dallasaurus"" is a basal mosasauroid from the Upper Cretaceous of North America. ""Dallasaurus"" is a basal mosasauroid from the Upper Cretaceous of  .
245 dallas Along with "Russellosaurus", "Dallasaurus" is one of the two oldest mosasauroid taxa currently known from North America. Along with "Russellosaurus", "Dallasaurus" is  of the  oldest mosasauroid taxa  known from  .
246 dallas This small semi-aquatic lizard measured less than a meter in length, compared to such gigantic derived mosasaurs as "Tylosaurus" and "Mosasaurus", each exceededing 15 meters. This small semi-aquatic lizard measured less than a meter in length, compared to such gigantic derived mosasaurs as "Tylosaurus" and "", each exceededing  meters.
247 dallas In appearance, it was similar to its closest living relative, the Komodo Dragon. In appearance, it was similar to its closest living relative, the Komodo Dragon.
248 dallas The genus is based upon two partial skeletons recovered from the Arcadia Park Shale (lower Middle Turonian), approximately 15 meters above its contact with the older Kamp Ranch Limestone in Dallas County in north-central Texas. The genus is based upon  partial skeletons recovered from the    (lower Middle Turonian), approximately  meters above its contact with the older    in   in north-central .
249 dallas The holotype specimen (TMM 43209-1, Texas Memorial Museum, University of Texas at Austin) consists of an incomplete and disarticulated skull, along with considerable portions of the postcranial skeleton, making up about 80 percent of the animal. The holotype specimen ( ,  Memorial Museum,    at ) consists  an incomplete and disarticulated skull, along with considerable portions  the postcranial skeleton, making up about 80 percent  the animal.
250 dallas The second referred specimen (DMNH 8121-8125, 8143-8149, and 8161-8180, Dallas Museum of Natural History) lacks any skull material and consists entirely of disarticulated postcranial remains. The  referred specimen (DMNH , , and ,     ) lacks any skull material and consists entirely  disarticulated postcranial remains.
251 dallas The strata containing these fossils were temporarily exposed during excavations for a housing development, and both sites have now been reburied by construction. The strata containing these fossils were temporarily exposed during excavations for a housing development, and both sites have  been reburied by construction.
252 dallas The two specimens were discovered about 100 meters from one another; the first was found by an amateur collector, Van Turner, for whom the type species ("Dallasaurus turneri") was named. The  specimens were discovered about  meters from  another; the  was found by an amateur collector,  , for whom the type species ("Dallasaurus turneri") was named.
253 dallas The genus is named for Dallas County, where both specimens were found. The genus is named for  , where both specimens were found.
254 dallas Polcyn and Bell diagnose "Dallasaurus" as follows: "Small, plesiopedal mosasauroid possessing the following autapomorphies: posterior maxillary teeth strongly recurved posteriorly, slightly inflated at the crown and bearing only posterior carinae that is slightly offset laterally; atlas neural arch mediolaterally compressed but not flattened at its base, condylar surfaces irregularly figure-eight shaped; cervical vertebra synopophyses protrude below the level of the ventral edge of the centrum; short, wide fossa excavated immediately below the ventral rim of the cotyle of at least one middle cervical vertebra; hypapophysis anteroventral edge terminating in short projections of irregular length; postglenoid process capped by bony epiphysis bearing a calcified cartilage apex." and  diagnose "Dallasaurus" as follows: "Small, plesiopedal mosasauroid possessing the following autapomorphies: posterior maxillary teeth strongly recurved posteriorly, slightly inflated at the crown and bearing only posterior carinae that is slightly offset laterally; atlas neural arch mediolaterally compressed but not flattened at its base, condylar surfaces irregularly figure-eight shaped; cervical vertebra synopophyses protrude below the level of the ventral edge of the centrum; short, wide fossa excavated immediately below the ventral rim of the cotyle of at least  middle cervical vertebra; hypapophysis anteroventral edge terminating in short projections of irregular length; postglenoid process capped by bony epiphysis bearing a calcified cartilage apex."
255 dallas Bell and Polcyn have conducted a cladistic analysis of "Dallasaurus", concluding that this taxon should be placed within the subfamily Mosasaurinae, "well within [the family] Mosasauridae", and that, despite its small size and the "primitive" condition of its limbs, it should not be placed within the paraphyletic family Aigialosauridae. and  have conducted a cladistic analysis of "Dallasaurus", concluding that this taxon should be placed within the subfamily Mosasaurinae, "well within [the family] Mosasauridae", and that, despite its small size and the "primitive" condition of its limbs, it should not be placed within the paraphyletic family Aigialosauridae.
256 dallas "Dallasaurus" is the sister group to more derived mosasaurine mosasaurs such as "Clidastes", "Prognathodon", "Mosasaurus", and "Plotosaurus". "Dallasaurus" is the sister group to more derived mosasaurine mosasaurs such as "Clidastes", "Prognathodon", "Mosasaurus", and "Plotosaurus".
257 dallas Denton is located on the northern edge of the Dallas&ndash;Fort Worth metropolitan area at the intersection of Interstate 35 and U.S. Highways 380, 377 and 77. is located on the northern edge of the &ndash;  metropolitan area at the intersection of Interstate  and  Highways ,  and .
258 dallas According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of , of which  is land and  (1.36%) is water. According to the    , the city has a total area of , of which  is land and  (1.36%) is water.
259 dallas The city lies in the northeast edge of the Bend Arch&ndash;Fort Worth Basin, which is characterized by flat terrain. The city lies in the  edge of the Bend Arch&ndash;  , which is characterized by flat terrain.
260 dallas Elevation ranges from . Elevation ranges from .
261 dallas Interstate 35 splits into I-35E and I-35W at the southern end of the city, and the highways continue south towards Dallas and Fort Worth, respectively. Interstate  splits into I-E and I-W at the southern end of the city, and the highways continue south towards  and  , respectively.
262 dallas These three cities form the area known as the "Golden Triangle of North Texas." These  cities form the area known as the "Golden Triangle of  ."
263 dallas Lewisville Lake, a man-made reservoir named the "Urban Bass Fishing Capital of Texas", is located  south of the city. , a man-made reservoir named the "Urban Bass Fishing Capital of ", is located  south of the city.
264 dallas Part of the city is located atop the Barnett Shale, a geological formation believed to contain large quantities of natural gas. Part of the city is located atop the  , a geological formation believed to contain large quantities of natural gas.
265 dallas With its hot, humid summers and cool winters, Denton's climate is characterized as humid subtropical. With its hot, humid summers and cool winters, 's climate is characterized as humid subtropical.
266 dallas Dry winds reach the area in the summer and can bring temperatures of up to , although the average summer temperature is in the 90s. Dry winds reach the area in the  and can bring temperatures of up to , although the average  temperature is in the 90s.
267 dallas The coolest month is January, with temperatures dropping down to an average minimum of . The coolest  is , with temperatures dropping down to an average minimum of .
268 dallas Average snowfall in Denton is similar to the Dallas&ndash;Fort Worth average of  per year. Average snowfall in  is similar to the &ndash;  average of  per .
269 dallas Denton lies on the southern end of what is commonly referred to as "Tornado Alley". lies on the southern end of what is commonly referred to as "Tornado Alley".
270 dallas Although tornadoes rarely form, tornado watches are issued by the National Weather Service. Although tornadoes rarely form, tornado watches are issued by the   .
271 dallas Flash floods and severe thunderstorms are frequent occurrences during spring months. Flash floods and severe thunderstorms are frequent occurrences during  .
272 dallas The city's all-time high temperature is , recorded in 1954. The city's all-time high temperature is , recorded in .
273 dallas The all-time recorded low is . The all-time recorded low is .
274 dallas Denton receives approximately  of rain per year. receives approximately  of rain per .
275 dallas In 2011 intense drought struck much of Texas and a large portion of the Southwest bringing much of the region its worst drought seen since the Dust Bowl years of the 1930s. In  intense drought struck much   and a large portion   Southwest bringing much   region its worst drought seen since       .
276 dallas Most of the drought in Texas ended or had it impacts ease by Spring and Summer 2012 as precipitation returned to the region. Most of the drought in  ended or had it impacts ease by  and   as precipitation returned to the region.
277 dallas The Texas and Southwest US drought was also accompanied by a severe heat wave that brought record setting heat to much of Texas, including but not limited to bringing a 40 day stretch of temperatures at or above  to Dallas, TX. The  and   drought was also accompanied by a severe heat wave that brought record setting heat to much of , including but not limited to bringing a   stretch of temperatures at or above  to , .
278 dallas Drought of severe magnitude also affected a large portion of the Southeastern US, especially Georgia and South Carolina. Drought of severe magnitude also affected a large portion of the eastern , especially  and  .
279 dallas It is believed that a combination of La Nina and climate change had contributed to the intense drought. It is believed that a combination of La  and climate change had contributed to the intense drought.
280 dallas The "Eagle Ford Formation" (also called the "Eagle Ford Shale") is a sedimentary rock formation from the Late Cretaceous age underlying much of South and East Texas in United States, consisting of organic matter-rich fossiliferous marine shale. The "Eagle Ford Formation" (also called the "Eagle Ford Shale") is a sedimentary rock formation from the Late Cretaceous age underlying much of  and   in  , consisting of organic matter-rich fossiliferous marine shale.
281 dallas It derives its name from the old community of Eagle Ford, now a neighborhood in West Dallas, where outcrops of the Eagle Ford Shale were first observed. It derives its name from the old community of  ,  a neighborhood in  , where outcrops of the   Shale were  observed.
282 dallas Such outcrops can be seen in the geology of the Dallas–Fort Worth Metroplex, and are labeled on images with the label "Kef". Such outcrops can be seen in the geology of the –  , and are labeled on images with the label "Kef".
283 dallas The Eagle Ford Shale is one of the most actively drilled targets for oil and gas in the United States in 2010. The    is  of the most actively drilled targets for oil and gas in the   in .
284 dallas Transgression continued to occur after complete deposition of the Woodbine around 92 million years ago (mya). Transgression continued to occur after complete deposition of the  around     (mya).
285 dallas Creation of the Colorado Group, which first created the Eagle Ford Shale, occurred between ~92 and 88 mya. Creation of the  , which  created the Eagle Ford Shale, occurred between  and  mya.
286 dallas The Eagle Ford is mostly confined within the subsurface but outcrops on west side of Dallas and continues at a 1 degree easterly prograding tilt. The Eagle Ford is mostly confined within the subsurface but outcrops on west side of  and continues at a  degree easterly prograding tilt.
287 dallas The Eagle Ford Shale had sea level depths about 100 meters or 330 feet, and deposited about 20-50 kilometers from the shore. The Eagle Ford Shale had sea level depths about  meters or  feet, and deposited about  kilometers from the shore.
288 dallas The depositional environment in the lower beds was low energy and slightly anoxic. The depositional environment in the lower beds was low energy and slightly anoxic.
289 dallas This anoxic setting of the deeper oceanic waters was a result of increased amounts of CO₂ during deposition in the Cretaceous. This anoxic setting of the deeper oceanic waters was a result of increased amounts of CO during deposition in the Cretaceous.
290 dallas The lower section of the Eagle Ford consists of organic-rich, pyritic, and fossiliferous marine shales which mark the maximum flooding surface, or the deepest water during Eagle Ford deposition. The lower section of the   consists of organic-rich, pyritic, and fossiliferous marine shales which mark the maximum flooding surface, or the deepest water during   deposition.
291 dallas The different fauna present in the Eagle Ford suggest the waters were calm and within the photic zone. The different fauna  in the Eagle Ford suggest the waters were calm and within the photic zone.
292 dallas A small member of the Eagle Ford that consists of a thin limestone unit between shales is known as the Kamp Ranch. A small member of the   that consists of a thin limestone unit between shales is known as the Kamp Ranch.
293 dallas A small regressive highstand formed this carbonate layer towards the top of the Eagle Ford, identifiable by high energy features, such as ripple marks from storm generated waves and interbedded carbonaceous siltstones. A small regressive highstand formed this carbonate layer towards the top of the  , identifiable by high energy features, such as ripple marks from storm generated waves and interbedded carbonaceous siltstones.
294 dallas The overall thickness of the undivided Eagle Ford Group is 200–300 feet thick. The overall thickness of the undivided    is – feet thick.
295 dallas The National Weather Service posted flood watches stretching from Dallas, Texas, to Scranton, Pennsylvania, starting March 16. The    posted flood watches stretching from , , to , , starting  .
296 dallas Two strong low-pressure centers developed along a stationary front that stretched along this line. strong low-pressure centers developed along a stationary front that stretched along this line.
297 dallas One was located in the southern region of Illinois, and the other was located near San Antonio, Texas. was located in the southern region of , and the other was located near  , .
298 dallas The northern low, combined with strong upper level winds, dragged large amounts moisture north from the Gulf of Mexico. The northern low, combined with strong upper level winds, dragged large amounts moisture north from the   .
299 dallas The southern low produced severe weather and heavy rain on its north side. The southern low produced severe weather and heavy rain on its north side.
300 dallas At one point, the national weather radar composite showed a large shield of heavy rain stretching from Texas to northern Indiana. At  point, the national weather radar composite showed a large shield of heavy rain stretching from  to northern .
301 dallas River flooding continued through May in some areas, causing additional problems where flash flooding from the heavy rains struck. River flooding continued through  in some areas, causing additional problems where flash flooding from the heavy rains struck.
302 dallas Numerous locations in Arkansas reported record rainfall totals from March into early April. Numerous locations in  reported record rainfall totals from    .
303 dallas The "1995 Colima-Jalisco earthquake" was a 8.0 Mw earthquake which occurred on October 9, 1995 at 15:36 UTC, off the coast of Jalisco, Mexico, with least 49 people dead and 100 more injured. The " Colima- earthquake" was a  Mw earthquake which occurred on    at 15:36 UTC off the coast of   with least 4 people dead and  more injured.
304 dallas The earthquake triggered a tsunami, which affected a 200 km coast. The earthquake triggered a tsunami, which affected a  km coast.
305 dallas The Cihuatlan-Manzanillo area, Colima, was more severely affected than other areas. The Cihuatlan-Manzanillo area, , was more severely affected than other areas.
306 dallas The earthquake was felt in Mexico City and in high-rise buildings in Dallas and Houston. The earthquake was felt in   and in high-rise buildings in  and .
307 dallas Most of the islands have dense cover of bramble "Rubus fruticosus" and bracken "Pteridium aquilinum" and grassland along the coastal fringes. Most of the islands have dense cover of bramble "Rubus fruticosus" and bracken "Pteridium aquilinum" and grassland along the coastal fringes.
308 dallas Goldenrod ("Solidago virgaurea") is locally abundant amongst the heath communities growing on the podzolic soils on the higher parts of the islands. Goldenrod ("Solidago virgaurea") is locally abundant amongst the heath communities growing on the podzolic soils on the higher parts of the islands.
309 dallas The heaths are classified as a poor fit somewhere between H10 and H11 and the heather ("Calluna vulgaris"), bell heather ("Erica cinerea") and bracken merge into pure bracken on the lower slopes. The heaths are classified as a poor fit somewhere between H10 and H11 and the heather (" vulgaris"), bell heather (" cinerea") and bracken merge into pure bracken on the lower slopes.
310 dallas A feasibility study is needed to decide if the vegetation would benefit from grazing through a Higher Level Stewardship (HLS) agreement. A feasibility study is needed to decide if the vegetation would benefit from grazing through a Higher Level Stewardship (HLS) agreement.
311 dallas With no resident botanist, together with the difficulty of recording on remote islands, there are not many plant records and the number of species for each of the Eastern Isles was finally published in 1971 from surveys carried out by J D Grose, Mr & Mrs J E Dallas and J E Lousley in 1938 and 1939. With no resident botanist, together with the difficulty of recording on remote islands, there are not many plant records and the number of species for each of the   was finally published in  from surveys carried out by   , Mr & Mrs  E allas and  E  in  and .
312 dallas Lousley listed 111 species of higher plants in his 1971 "Flora", and by 1999 further surveys recorded a similar number (114). listed  species of higher plants in his  "Flora", and by  further surveys recorded a similar number ().
313 dallas Some of the islands have species that are only found on that island and not on the other Eastern Isles such as an oak tree found by Mr and Mrs Dallas on Great Gannick. Some of the islands have species that are only found on that island and not on the other   such as an oak tree found by Mr and   on  .
314 dallas Possible ancient woodland indicators such as butcher’s-broom ("Ruscus aculeatus"), wood spurge ("Euphorbia amygdaloides") and wood small-reed ("Calamagrostis epigejos") have also been recorded on Great Gannick. Possible ancient woodland indicators such as butcher’s-broom ("Ruscus aculeatus"), wood spurge ("Euphorbia amygdaloides") and wood small-reed ("Calamagrostis epigejos") have also been recorded on Great Gannick.
315 dallas The nationally rare orange bird's-foot ("Ornithopus pinnatus") is found on the northern side of Great Ganilly. The nationally rare orange bird's-foot ("Ornithopus pinnatus") is found on the northern side of Great Ganilly.
316 dallas The islands of Great Ganinick and Little Ganinick (, "place of wild garlic") (), are part of the GCR and are in an early stage of the linkage of two islands by a tombola. The islands of   and   (, "place of wild garlic") (), are part of the  and are in an early stage of the linkage of  islands by a tombola.
317 dallas The sand bar is building from Little Ganinick, northwards, towards the larger island although the sand supply does not appear to be sufficient to link the two islands. The sand bar is building from Little Ganinick, northwards, towards the larger island although the sand supply does not appear to be sufficient to link the  islands.
318 dallas On the north side of Great Ganinick a "cuspate" shaped beach is forming. On the north side of   a "cuspate" shaped beach is forming.
319 dallas Great Gannick has the only known oak tree in the Eastern Islands. has the only known oak tree in the  .
320 dallas Described by Mr and Mrs Dallas in 1938 as ″.... about 2 ft 6in (0.76 m) tall in tangle of bracken, bramble and honeysuckle. Described by Mr and   in  as ″.... about  ft 6in ( m) tall in tangle of bracken, bramble and honeysuckle.
321 dallas It was still there (or possibly one like it) in 1997. It was still there (or possibly  like it) in .
322 dallas Great Gannick is rich in plant species with 74 species recorded by Lousley including butcher's–broom, wood spurge, wood small–reed and white ramping–fumitory. Great Gannick is rich in plant species with  species recorded by  including butcher's–broom, wood spurge, wood small–reed and white ramping–fumitory.
323 dallas Little Ganiinck has grassland with strandline vegetation and seabird colonies. has grassland with strandline vegetation and seabird colonies.
324 dallas A wind gust of  was reported at Dothan, with minimum barometric pressure reaching 999.2 mb. A wind gust of  was reported at , with minimum barometric pressure reaching  mb.
325 dallas It is reported that the worst damage occurred in Escambia and Monroe counties. It is reported that the worst damage occurred in  and  counties.
326 dallas In the Escambia County city of Atmore, 100 percent of the city's residents lost electric power for some a period of time during the hurricane. In the   city of , 100 percent of the city's residents lost electric power for some a period of time during the hurricane.
327 dallas The strongest winds occurred in Escambia County, where gusts surpassed , leaving numerous structures damaged or destroyed as Dennis tracked through the western half of the county. The strongest winds occurred in  , where gusts surpassed , leaving numerous structures damaged or destroyed as  tracked through the western half of the county.
328 dallas One man in the county was injured by a fallen tree branch. man in the county was injured by a fallen tree branch.
329 dallas Also, an unconfirmed tornado tore the roof off a home, forcing emergency workers to evacuate a man inside. Also, an unconfirmed tornado tore the roof off a home, forcing emergency workers to evacuate a man inside.
330 dallas In Coffee County, local officials reported wind gusts had blown a carport into a wall of a house. In  , local officials reported wind gusts had blown a carport into a wall of a house.
331 dallas Marengo County received moderate damage, mostly limited to power outages and minor roof and structural damage caused by fallen trees and powerlines. received moderate damage, mostly limited to power outages and minor roof and structural damage caused by fallen trees and powerlines.
332 dallas Many customers were without electric power for at least a day, and numerous county roads were covered with debris. Mny customers were without electric power for    dy, nd numerous county rods were covered with debris.
333 dallas A person was injured in Dallas County when a tree landed on their car. A person was injured in   when a tree landed on their car.
334 dallas Five homes and one business were damaged due to high winds, and thousands of people county-wide experienced power outages. homes and  business were damaged due to high winds, and thousands of people county-wide experienced power outages.
335 dallas Greene County reported hundreds of downed trees and powerlines causing County Roads 148 and 20 and State Highways 11, 43 and 14 to be temporarily closed. reported hundreds of downed trees and powerlines causing  Roads  and  and State Highways ,  and  to be temporarily closed.
336 dallas In Forkland, a mobile home caught fire when a powerline fell on the home. In , a mobile home caught fire when a powerline fell on the home.
337 dallas A motorist ran into a fallen tree in Boligee although did not sustain injuries. A motorist ran into a fallen tree in  although did not sustain injuries.
338 dallas In Perry County, 2,200 homes were without electric power for several hours, and several vehicles and homes were damaged. In  ,  homes were without electric power for  , and  vehicles and homes were damaged.
339 dallas A structural fire occurred in Russell County and was believed to be ignited by downed powerlines. A structural fire occurred in   and was believed to be ignited by downed powerlines.
340 dallas Wind gusts in Autauga County surpassed , causing $180,000 dollars (2005 USD) in damage. Wind gusts in   surpassed , causing $180,000 dollars ( USD) in damage.
341 dallas The Robinson Springs United Methodist Church had part of its roof torn off in Elmore County, while numerous other homes sustained roof damage. The      had part of its roof torn off in  , while numerous other homes sustained roof damage.
342 dallas One person was injured in Montgomery County when a tree fell on their vehicle. person was injured in   when a tree fell on their vehicle.
343 dallas Another person was injured in Clay County when he ran his vehicle into a downed tree. Another person was injured in   when he ran his vehicle into a downed tree.
344 dallas A structural fire occurred in Randolph County as a result of fallen powerlines. A structural fire occurred in   as a result of fallen powerlines.
345 dallas Rainfall typically ranged from 2–4 inches (50–100 mm), although rainfall in localized areas reached . Rainfall typically ranged from – inches (– mm), although rainfall in localized areas reached .
346 dallas This caused numerous rivers to overflow causing widespread, locally major, flash flooding. This caused numerous rivers to overflow causing widespread, locally major, flash flooding.
347 dallas The rainfall flooded numerous state and county roads, some with water up to  deep. The rainfall flooded numerous state and county roads, some with water up to  deep.
348 dallas Parts of Interstate 20 were overwashed with water, temporarily closing the highway. Parts of Interstate  were overwashed with water, temporarily closing the highway.
349 dallas In Dallas County, a mudslide closed a section of State Highway 5. In  , a mudslide closed a section of State Highway .
350 dallas In Greene County, the minor flooding was reported along the Tombigbee River. In  , the minor flooding was reported along the  .
351 dallas Throughout the region, numerous bridges were washed away several homes were flooded, sustaining major damage in some cases. Throughout the region, numerous bridges were washed away several homes were flooded, sustaining major damage in some cases.
352 dallas In 2009, Dallas Abbott of Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory in New York published evidence from Greenland ice cores that multiple comet impacts caused the haze. In ,   of  's    in   published evidence from  ice cores that multiple comet impacts caused the haze.
353 dallas The spherules found in the ice may originate from terrestrial debris ejected into the atmosphere by an impact event. The spherules found in the ice may originate from terrestrial debris ejected into the atmosphere by an impact event.
354 dallas The popular scenic destination Clover Point offers views south to Washington State's Olympic Mountains, east to the impressive snow clad Mount Baker--a dormant volcano—and west to the Sooke Hills of southwestern Vancouver Island. The popular scenic destination Clover Point offers views south to    , east to the impressive snow clad  --a dormant volcano—and west to the   of southwestern  .
355 dallas The ocean waters off of the Point and along the Dallas Road waterfront are very popular with wind surfing and para-sailing enthusiasts thanks to strong on-shore winds. The ocean waters off of the Point and along the   waterfront are very popular with wind surfing and para-sailing enthusiasts thanks to strong on-shore winds.
356 dallas Clover Point is also the site of one of Victoria's two sewage pumping station's and a possible location for a sewage treatment plant mandated for the city by the BC government in July 2006. Clover Point is also the site of  of 's  sewage pumping station's and a possible location for a sewage treatment plant mandated for the city by the BC government in  .
357 dallas Storm and Forge meanwhile find themselves in a pristine, natural world all to themselves. Storm and Forge meanwhile find themselves in a pristine, natural world all to themselves.
358 dallas In this new Earth, time proceeds at an accelerated rate, and while only a few moments pass in the main reality, a year does for them. In this new , time proceeds t n ccelerted rte, nd while only  few moments pss in the min relity,  yer does for them.
359 dallas Storm, still hating the man she once loved (as Forge invented the Neutralizer gun that removed her mutant powers), spends most of the year in solitude until she is finally ready to make her peace with him. Storm, still hating  man she  loved (as Forge invented   gun that removed her mutant powers), spends most of   in solitude until she is finally ready to make her peace with him.
360 dallas Forge meanwhile had been developing technology from the ground up, eventually creating the tools - and with circuitry sourced from dismantling his bionic arm and leg - enabling him to build a device which restores Storm's weather manipulation powers. Forge meanwhile had been developing technology from the ground up, eventually creating the tools - and with circuitry sourced from dismantling his bionic arm and leg - enabling him to build a device which restores Storm's weather manipulation powers.
361 dallas Storm, after months of being grounded takes to the skies again with joy, and Forge uses his shamanic magic in conjunction with her lightning bolts to open a portal back to Dallas. Storm, after  of being grounded takes to the skies again with joy, and Forge uses his shamanic magic in conjunction with her lightning bolts to open a portal back to .
362 dallas The "Fenambosy Chevron" is one of four chevron-shaped land features on the southwest coast of Madagascar, near the tip of Madagascar, 180 metres high and 5 km inland. The "Fenambosy Chevron" is  of  chevron-shaped land features on the southwest coast of , near the tip of ,  metres high and  km inland.
363 dallas It is composed mainly of material found on the ocean floor. It is composed mainly of material found on the ocean floor.
364 dallas Chevrons such as Fenambosy have been hypothesized as providing evidence of "megatsunamis" caused by comets or asteroids crashing into Earth. Chevrons such as Fenambosy have been hypothesized as providing evidence of "megatsunamis" caused by comets or asteroids crashing into .
365 dallas About 900 miles southeast from the Madagascar chevrons, in deep ocean, is Burckle crater, which Dallas Abbott discovered in 2005. About  miles southeast from the  chevrons, in deep ocean, is  crater, which   discovered in .
366 dallas Although its sediments have not been directly sampled, cores from the area contain high levels of nickel and magnetic components associated with impact ejecta. Although its sediments have not been directly sampled, cores from the area contain high levels of nickel and magnetic components associated with impact ejecta.
367 dallas Burckle crater has not been dated, but Abbott estimates that it is 4,500 to 5,000 years old. crater has not been dated, but  estimates that it is     .
368 dallas "Volume VI of the HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS:  B. Photograph Authentication 1. THE OSWALD BACKYARD PHOTOGRAPHS Paragraph (410): A profile photograph taken by the Dallas Police Department, shows that the lower half of Oswald's chin had a roughly cylindrical protrusion with a horizontal axis. "Volume VI of the HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS:  B. Photograph Authentication .THE OSWALD BACKYARD PHOTOGRAPHS Paragraph (): A profile photograph taken by the   , shows that the lower half of 's chin had a roughly cylindrical protrusion with a horizontal axis.
369 dallas (See fig. (See fig.
370 dallas IV-33, JFK exhibit, No. F-194.) IV-33, JFK exhibit, No.F-194.)
371 dallas When the chin was lighted by direct sunlight coming from nearly overhead, the protrusion cast a shadow over the bottom part of the chin. When the chin was lighted by direct sunlight coming from nearly overhead, the protrusion cast a shadow over the bottom part of the chin.
372 dallas The upper edge of the shadow was a nearly straight horizontal line. The upper edge of the shadow was a nearly straight horizontal line.
373 dallas The bottom of his chin, like his eyes and neck, is in such deep shadow that it is not visible. The bottom of his chin, like his eyes and neck, is in such deep shadow that it is not visible.
374 dallas Thus, the shape of Oswald's chin and the type and direction of illumination are responsible for the relatively flat appearance of his chin." Thus, the shape of 's chin and the type and direction of illumination are responsible for the relatively flat appearance of his chin."
375 dallas A blizzard (see: 1993 Storm of the Century) caught much of the Southeast off-guard in 1993, dumping  at the Atlanta airport on March 13, and much more than that in the suburbs to the north and west, as well as in the mountains. A blizzard (see:  Storm of  ) caught much of  Souast off-guard in , dumping  at   airport on  , and much more than that in  suburbs to  north and west, as well as in  mountains.
376 dallas Dallas, a suburb about 30 miles to the west-northwest, received  from the storm. , a suburb about  miles to the west-northwest, received  from the storm.
377 dallas Some people were awakened by thunder and lightning in a very rare thundersnow event. Some people were awakened by thunder and lightning in a very rare thundersnow event.
378 dallas Several areas of northern Cobb County recorded over  in snowdrifts. Several areas of northern   recorded over  in snowdrifts.
379 dallas It is widely regarded as the snow event of the century for Atlanta, and is referred to as the "Storm of the Century", placing fifth in the city's snowfall records. It is widely regarded as  snow event of   for , and is referred to as  "Storm of  ", placing  in  city's snowfall records.
380 dallas The only other recorded winter storm of comparable severity was the Great Blizzard of 1899, which struck in February. The only other recorded  storm of comparable severity was the Great Blizzard of , which struck in .
381 dallas A blizzard hit on January 9–15 crippling the city and leaving schools out for the whole week. A blizzard hit on  – crippling  city and leaving schools out for   .
382 dallas Ice covered roads and over eight inches of snow fell in some places with over a foot in the far northern metropolitan area. Ice covered roads and over  inches of snow fell in some places with over a foot in the far northern metropolitan area.
383 dallas Texas is mostly sedimentary rocks, with east Texas underlain by a Cretaceous and younger sequence of sediments, the trace of ancient shorelines east and south until the active continental margin of the Gulf of Mexico is met. is mostly sedimentary rocks, with east  underlain by a  and younger sequence  sediments, the trace  ancient shorelines east and south until the active continental margin  the    is met.
384 dallas This sequence is built atop the subsided crest of the Appalachian Mountains&ndash;Ouachita Mountains&ndash;Marathon Mountains zone of Pennsylvanian continental collision, which collapsed when rifting in Jurassic time opened the Gulf of Mexico. This sequence is built atop the subsided crest of the  &ndash; &ndash;Marathon  zone of  continental collision, which collapsed when rifting in Jurassic time opened the Gulf of .
385 dallas West from this orogenic crest, which is buried beneath the Dallas&ndash;Waco&ndash;Austin&ndash;San Antonio trend, the sediments are Permian and Triassic in age. West from this orogenic crest, which is buried beneath the &ndash;&ndash;&ndash;  trend, the sediments are  and  in age.
386 dallas Oil is found in the Cretaceous sediments in the east, the Permian sediments in the west, and along the Gulf coast and out on the Texas continental shelf. Oil is found in the  sediments in the east, the  sediments in the west, and along the Gulf coast and out on the  continental shelf.
387 dallas A few exposures of Precambrian igneous and metamorphic rocks are found in the central and western parts of the state, and Oligocene volcanic rocks are found in far west Texas, in the Big Bend area. A few exposures of  igneous and metamorphic rocks are found in the central and western parts of the state, and  volcanic rocks are found in far west , in the Big Bend area.
388 dallas A blanket of Miocene sediments known as the Ogallala formation in the western high plains region is an important aquifer. A blanket of  sediments known as the  formation in the western high plains region is an important aquifer.
389 dallas Texas has no active or dormant volcanoes and few earthquakes, being situated far from an active plate tectonic boundary. has no active or dormant volcanoes and few earthquakes, being situated far from an active plate tectonic boundary.
390 dallas The Big Bend area is the most seismically active; however, the area is sparsely populated and suffers minimal damages and injuries, and no known fatalities have been attributed to a Texas earthquake. The Big Bend area is the most seismically active; however, the area is sparsely populated and suffers minimal damages and injuries, and no known fatalities have been attributed to a  earthquake.
391 dallas The North Central Plains are bounded by the Caprock Escarpment to the west, the Edwards Plateau to the south, and the Eastern Cross Timbers to the east. The    are bounded by the   to the west, the   to the south, and the    to the east.
392 dallas This area includes the North Central Plains around the cities of Abilene and Wichita Falls, the Western Cross Timbers to the west of Fort Worth, the Grand Prairie, and the Eastern Cross Timbers to the east of Dallas. This area includes the    around the cities of  and  , the    to the west of  , the  , and the    to the east of .
393 dallas With about  annual rainfall, gently rolling to hilly forested land is part of a larger pine-hardwood forest of oaks, hickories, elm and gum trees. With about  annual rainfall, gently rolling to hilly forested land is part of a larger pine-hardwood forest of oaks, hickories, elm and gum trees.
394 dallas Soils vary from coarse sands to tight clays or red-bed clays and shales. Soils vary from coarse sands to tight clays or red-bed clays and shales.
395 dallas The last beds of the Cretaceous, which are also deposited directly over the Taylor formation and found east of Dallas are the Navarro beds. The last beds of the , which are also deposited directly over the  formation and found east of  are the  beds.
396 dallas Navarro beds reflect anoxic waters at the time due to the shale present, and are a result of increased volcanic activity in the south-western part of the United States. beds reflect anoxic waters at the time due to the shale , and are a result of increased volcanic activity in the south-western part of the  .
397 dallas During the end of deposition of the Taylor formation, the eustatic regression had brought sea-level down to the present day shoreline of the Gulf of Mexico. During  end of deposition of   formation,  eustatic regression had brought sea-level down to    shoreline of  Gulf of .
398 dallas This world-wide regression marks the slowing of sea-floor spreading and bounds the Gulfian Series in a sequence boundary. This world-wide regression marks the slowing of sea-floor spreading and bounds the   in a sequence boundary.
399 dallas In the western part of the country the Laramide Orogeny that was building the Rockies Mountains started to accommodate horizontal shortening by uplift versus the previous folding and thrusting accommodation. In the western part of the country the Laramide Orogeny that was building the   started to accommodate horizontal shortening by uplift versus the previous folding and thrusting accommodation.
400 dallas Also during this time around 65mya a major extinction including dinosaurs took place, and is believed to have been caused by a meteorite hitting Mexico off the Yucatan Peninsula. Also during this time around  a major extinction including dinosaurs took place, and is believed to have been caused by a meteorite hitting  off the  .
401 dallas All of these occurrences mark the end of an important time for Texas, especially the DFW Metroplex, and brought in a new Era and Period known respectively as the Cenozoic and Paleogene. All of these occurrences mark the end of an important time for , especially the  , and brought in a new  and Period known respectively as the  and Paleogene.
402 dallas Dallas was also affected subtly by much younger geologic formations deposited by an older, more vigorous Trinity River. was also affected subtly by much younger geologic formations deposited by an older, more vigorous  .
403 dallas The northern hemisphere Ice age occurred in Pleistocene time, when a continental ice sheet reached as far south as Kansas during the Wisconsin glaciation. The northern hemisphere Ice age occurred in Pleistocene time, when a continental ice sheet reached as far south as  during the  glaciation.
404 dallas The ice age climate had two effects on the Trinity River: It caused downcutting (few people know that there is a  deep buried canyon beneath the Trinity in Dallas) , and a wetter climate caused much more water to flow in the river. The ice age climate had  effects on the Trinity River: It caused downcutting (few people know that there is a  deep buried canyon beneath the Trinity in ) , and a wetter climate caused much more water to flow in the river.
405 dallas The greater river flow generated great sedimentary river terraces. The greater river flow generated great sedimentary river terraces.
406 dallas From time to time these terrace deposits reveal bones of extinct giant mammals, such as Mastodons and Mammoths . From time to time these terrace deposits reveal bones of extinct giant mammals, such as Mastodons and Mammoths .
407 dallas The Pleistocene terraces affected the development of Dallas, providing a rich alluvial soil and a perched aquifer, very useful indeed during the early years. The Pleistocene terraces affected  development of , providing a rich alluvial soil and a perched aquifer, very useful indeed during   .
408 dallas Downtown Dallas is built on a series of these terraces, rising subtly eastward from the Trinity river. Downtown  is built on a series of these terraces, rising subtly eastward from the Trinity river.
409 dallas The DFW Metroplex sprawls across a  wide N-S trending belt of outcropping Cretaceous sediments. The   sprawls across a  wide N-S trending belt of outcropping Cretaceous sediments.
410 dallas Fort Worth in the west is neatly built on Early Cretaceous (Comanche Series) and Dallas in the east is built on Late Cretaceous (Gulf Series) sediments. in the west is neatly built on Early Cretaceous (Comanche ) and  in the east is built on Late Cretaceous ( ) sediments.
411 dallas The Cretaceous rocks of the Comanche Series were deposited over a 20 million year interval. The  rocks of the   were deposited over a    interval.
412 dallas The sediments deposited during these 20 million years are bound within a sequence boundary, and are defined by a major regression at the end. The sediments deposited during these    are bound within a sequence boundary, and are defined by a major regression at the end.
413 dallas The time frame of the Comanche Series span between ~118-98mya, and are responsible for the deposition of the Trinity, Fredsrickberg, and Washita Groups. The time frame of the   span between 118-98mya, and are responsible for the deposition of the Trinity, , and  .
414 dallas These three Groups all lie west of the Balcones Fault Zone, and span from slightly west of Weatherford to the east side of Fort Worth. These  Groups all lie west of the   , and span from slightly west of  to the east side of  .
415 dallas The Trinity Group is best known for the Glen Rose Formation that lies within it. The Trinity Group is best known for the Glen Rose Formation that lies within it.
416 dallas The 40-200ft thick beds of the Glen Rose formation are composed of a limestone with alternating units consisting of clay, marl, and sand. The 40-200ft thick beds of the   formation are composed of a limestone with alternating units consisting of clay, marl, and sand.
417 dallas The depositional environment of the Glen Rose was a shallow marine to shoreline environment. The depositional environment of the   was a shallow marine to shoreline environment.
418 dallas This shoreline environment would eventually bring notoriety to the Glen Rose since it would eventually preserve dinosaur tracks. This shoreline environment would eventually bring notoriety to the   since it would eventually preserve dinosaur tracks.
419 dallas This process would occur when living terrestrial creatures would roam about and look for food near the shoreline. This process would occur when living terrestrial creatures would roam about and look for food near the shoreline.
420 dallas As they would do this, they would leave footprints and trackways that would eventually be preserved by mud depositing in and on top of the footprints. As they would do this, they would leave footprints and trackways that would eventually be preserved by mud depositing in and on top of the footprints.
421 dallas Eventually more formations would be deposited on top of the mud layers, and build essentially a 100 million year time capsule of the trace fossil. Eventually more formations would be deposited on top of the mud layers, and build essentially a    time capsule of the trace fossil.
422 dallas As time passed, weathering from water and wind caused the overlying sediments to erode and expose the footprints, and hence the reason why dinosaur tracks are present in the Glen Rose Dinosaur Valley State Park. As time passed, weathering from water and wind caused the overlying sediments to erode and expose the footprints, and hence the reason why dinosaur tracks are  in the      .
423 dallas Dallas–Fort Worth sits above Cretaceous-aged strata, dates ranging from ~145-65 Ma (million years ago). –  sits above  strata, dates ranging from  Ma (  ).
424 dallas These Cretaceous-aged sediments lie above the eroded Ouachita Mountains and the Fort Worth Basin, which was formed by the Ouachita Orogeny. These Cretaceous-aged sediments lie above the eroded   and the   , which was formed by the  Orogeny.
425 dallas Going from west to east in the DFW Metroplex and down towards the Gulf of Mexico, the strata gets progressively younger. Going from west to east in the   and down towards the   , the strata gets progressively younger.
426 dallas The Cretaceous sediments dip very gently (about 1°) to the east. The  sediments dip very gently (about °) to the east.
427 dallas Woodbine Formation located between Dallas and Fort Worth consists of marine and terrestrial fossils such as concretions and trace fossils, including the last known dinosaurs in this part of Texas. Formation located between  and   consists of marine and terrestrial fossils such as concretions and trace fossils, including the last known dinosaurs in this part of .
428 dallas Directly east of the Woodbine which is directly west of Dallas is the Eagle Ford, which consists of sharks teeth, Plesiosaurs, crabs, and little marine lizards called Coniasaurus. Directly east of the  which is directly west of  is the  , which consists of sharks teeth, Plesiosaurs, crabs, and little marine lizards called Coniasaurus.
429 dallas The North-West qaudrant of the I-20 and 408 loop is abundant in sharks teeth. The North-West qaudrant of the I-20 and  loop is abundant in sharks teeth.
430 dallas Directly east of 408 on Kiest Blvd is a large section of Eagle Ford Shale outcropping beneath the Austin Chalk. Directly east of  on   is a large section of Eagle Ford Shale outcropping beneath the Austin Chalk.
431 dallas This location right before you reach the top of the hill contain good amounts of sharks teeth in the Eagle Ford. This location right before you reach the top of the hill contain good amounts of sharks teeth in the  .
432 dallas Directly beneath Dallas you can find Ammonites, although they are rare. Directly beneath  you can find Ammonites, although they are rare.
433 dallas Sharks teeth are present and primarily easy to find in condensed zones, along with clam shells (Inoceramus) which may also be found in the Austin Chalk. Sharks teeth are  and primarily easy to find in condensed zones, along with clam shells (Inoceramus) which may also be found in the  .
434 dallas Although not viewable with the naked eye, Austin Chalk is derived and consists of millions of coccoliths, which are calcite derived from coccolithophores. Although not viewable with the naked eye,   is derived and consists of millions of coccoliths, which are calcite derived from coccolithophores.
435 dallas The Fort Worth Basin which lies beneath Cretaceous sediments west of Dallas formed as a foreland basin during the Ouachita orogeny. The    which lies beneath  sediments west of  formed as a foreland basin during the  orogeny.
436 dallas Horizontal shortening caused flexual isostasy to bend the lithosphere. Horizontal shortening caused flexual isostasy to bend the lithosphere.
437 dallas The bent lithosphere to the west of the Ouachita mountains caused a bowl shaped depression to form, known as a foreland basin, preserving the Mississippian sediments of the Barnett Shale and other Paleozoic sediments; these sediments mostly formed before the Pangeic collision. The bent lithosphere to the west of the  mountains caused a bowl shaped depression to form, known as a foreland basin, preserving the  sediments of the   and other  sediments; these sediments mostly formed before the  collision.
438 dallas Significant deposits of hydrocarbons such as natural gas have economic importance as is seen in formations like the Barnett Shale. Significant deposits of hydrocarbons such as natural gas have economic importance as is seen in formations like the  .
439 dallas Cretaceous formations that lie from eastern Fort Worth to east of Dallas are part of the Gulfian Series. Cretaceous formations that lie from eastern   to east of  are part of the  .
440 dallas Easterly progration of the formations go from west to east which also slowly get younger in age, ranging from ~97Ma to 65Ma. Easterly progration of the formations go from west to east which also slowly get younger in age, ranging from 97Ma to 65Ma.
441 dallas The Gulfian Series is known for the Cenomanian-Turonian transgression which deposited the mid-Cretaceous formations in the DFW Metroplex. The   is known for the  transgression which deposited the  formations in the  .
442 dallas The Gulfian Series consists of three groups, from oldest to youngest being the Dakota, Colorado and Montana. The   consists of  groups, from oldest to youngest being the ,  and .
443 dallas First of the Gulfian Series is the Woodbine formation which lies in the Dakota Group, and formed in a high energy depositional environment since it is composed mostly of large rounded grain quartz sediments. of the   is the  formation which lies in the  , and formed in a high energy depositional environment since it is composed mostly of large rounded grain quartz sediments.
444 dallas Present in the Woodbine Formation is marine and terrestrial sediments and fossils, including the last known dinosaurs in this part of Texas, dating back around ~96mya. in the   is marine and terrestrial sediments and fossils, including the last known dinosaurs in this part of , dating back around 96mya.
445 dallas The Woodbine ranges in thickness of 175-250ft, and thickens northward. The  ranges in thickness of 175-250ft, and thickens northward.
446 dallas Terrigenous sediments that eroded from Paleozoic rocks, and weakly metamorphosed sedimentary rocks from the Ouachita Mountains in Oklahoma constitute a large part of the Woodbine. Terrigenous sediments that eroded from  rocks, and weakly metamorphosed sedimentary rocks from the   in  constitute a large part of the .
447 dallas Transgression continued to occur after the deposition of the Woodbine, and created the Colorado Group which first created the Eagle Ford Shale which lies directly beneath west Dallas. Transgression continued to occur after the deposition of the , and created the   which  created the Eagle Ford Shale which lies directly beneath west .
448 dallas The Eagle Ford Shale had sea level depths of around ~100m or 330ft, and occurred around 20-50 km from the shore. The Eagle Ford Shale had sea level depths of around  or , and occurred around  km from the shore.
449 dallas The depositional environment in the lower beds was low-energy and a slightly anoxic setting. The depositional environment in the lower beds was low-energy and a slightly anoxic setting.
450 dallas This anoxic setting of the deeper waters in the ocean is a result several factors including increased global CO2 levels, higher sea levels, increased organic productivity and decay, Milankovitch cylicity, and restricted thermohaline currents in the Western Interior Seaway. This anoxic setting of the deeper waters in the ocean is a result several factors including increased global CO2 levels, higher sea levels, increased organic productivity and decay, Milankovitch cylicity, and restricted thermohaline currents in the Western Interior Seaway.
451 dallas The lower section of the Eagle Ford consists of organic-rich, pyritic, and fossiliferous marine shale’s which marks the maximum flooding surface, or peak of deepest water in its deposition. The lower section of the   consists of organic-rich, pyritic, and fossiliferous marine shale’s which marks the maximum flooding surface, or peak of deepest water in its deposition.
452 dallas The different fauna that was present in the Eagle Ford suggests the waters were calm and within the photic zone. The different fauna that was  in the   suggests the waters were calm and within the photic zone.
453 dallas A small member of the Eagle Ford that consists of a thin limestone unit between shale’s is known as the Kamp Ranch. A small member of the   that consists of a thin limestone unit between shale’s is known as the Kamp Ranch.
454 dallas A small regressive highstand occurred to have formed this carbonate layer towards the top of the Eagle Ford, which is known due to the high energy traits it displays such as ripple marks from storm generated waves and interbedded carbonaceous siltstones. A small regressive highstand occurred to have formed this carbonate layer towards the top of the  , which is known due to the high energy traits it displays such as ripple marks from storm generated waves and interbedded carbonaceous siltstones.
455 dallas The overall thickness of the Eagle Ford Group undivided is around 200-300 feet thick. The overall thickness of the    undivided is around  feet thick.
456 dallas Sea level rose even higher in this massive transgressive event, which helped form the 300-500ft thick Austin Chalk, around ~89-85mya. Sea level rose even higher in this massive transgressive event, which helped form the 300-500ft thick  , around 89-85mya.
457 dallas The Austin formation consists of recrystalized, fossiliferous, interbedded chalks and marls. The Austin formation consists of recrystalized, fossiliferous, interbedded chalks and marls.
458 dallas Exposures of Austin chalk are mainly seen in quarries, roadcuts, and stream beds where the water eroded the top soil. Exposures of  chalk are mainly seen in quarries, roadcuts, and stream beds where the water eroded the top soil.
459 dallas Austin chalk is the well known white rock that the city of Dallas sits on. Austin chalk is the well known white rock that the city of  sits on.
460 dallas Volcanic ashes are present in the Austin chalk, and were deposited by wind from distant erupting volcanoes and erupting igneous intrusions around 86 Ma. Volcanic ashes are  in the  chalk, and were deposited by wind from distant erupting volcanoes and erupting igneous intrusions around  Ma.
461 dallas These eruptions occurred along a 250 mile long by 50 mile wide belt of submarine volcanoes, which are located in present day south-central Texas. These eruptions occurred along a  mile long by  mile wide belt of submarine volcanoes, which are located in   south-central .
462 dallas This belt of volcanoes coincides with the trend of the Balcones Fault zone and is known as the Balcones volcanic province. This belt of volcanoes coincides with the trend of the  Fault zone and is known as the  volcanic province.
463 dallas Of what consisted of these ancient volcanoes is only visible in a few places since most were buried by the Austin and Taylor Groups, and now are in the subsurface. Of what consisted of these ancient volcanoes is only visible in a few places since most were buried by the  and  , and  are in the subsurface.
464 dallas The presence of this volcanism during deposition of the Austin Chalk is correlated with the Laramide orogeny. The presence of this volcanism during deposition of the   is correlated with the  orogeny.
465 dallas Sea level rose for conditions to be right for the deposition of the Austin Chalk, which also coincides with the maximum extent of the Cretaceous Interior Seaway. Sea level rose for conditions to be right for the deposition of the  , which also coincides with the maximum extent of the Cretaceous Interior Seaway.
466 dallas The depths of the deposition of the Austin Chalk occurred in ~250m or 820ft of water. The depths of the deposition of the Austin Chalk occurred in 250m or 820ft of water.
467 dallas The Austin Chalk formation is filled with micro-organisms known as coccoliths, and are a product of the warm waters that were displaced from the increased sea-floor spreading at the time. The Austin Chalk formation is filled with micro-organisms known as coccoliths, and are a product of the warm waters that were displaced from the increased sea-floor spreading at the time.
468 dallas People enjoy searching for fossils in the rocks around Dallas. People enjoy searching for fossils in the rocks around .
469 dallas Remnants of dinosaurs and Late Cretaceous marine reptiles such as Mosasaur are found. Remnants of dinosaurs and Late Cretaceous marine reptiles such as Mosasaur are found.
470 dallas One species of Mosasaur was named after the city: "Dallasaurus turneri". species of Mosasaur was named after the city: "Dallasaurus turneri".
471 dallas Following a storm in the southeast United States on February 12–13, snow was on the ground simultaneously in all 50 U.S. states, an event believed never to have occurred previously. Following a storm in the southeast   on  –, snow was on the ground simultaneously in all   states, an event believed never to have occurred .
472 dallas Snow was confirmed in 49 states by February 13, and small patches of remnant snow on the north face of Mauna Kea in Hawai'i were confirmed soon after. Snow was confirmed in  states by  , and small patches of remnant snow on the north face of   in  were confirmed soon after.
473 dallas The snow on February 12–13 forced the cancellation of Bi-Lo Myrtle Beach Marathon XIII after the 5k portion had been run the previous night. The snow on  – forced  cancellation of     XIII after  5k portion had been run   .
474 dallas A record depth of 12.5 inches of snow fell within 24 hours in the Dallas&ndash;Fort Worth urban metro on the 13th. A record depth of  inches of snow fell within   in the &ndash;  urban metro on the .
475 dallas The result of the massive snowstorm led to whole school districts being shut down and over 200,000 buildings were left without power, and forced to use fire and candles to light and heat their homes. The result of the massive snowstorm led to whole school districts being shut down and over  buildings were left without power, and forced to use fire and candles to light and heat their homes.
476 dallas A 1 ft tall wind-induced wave swept 3 people off of various southern Californian beaches on the 14th, slightly injuring one. A  ft tall wind-induced wave swept  people off of various southern Californian beaches on the 4th, slightly injuring .
477 dallas Light snow fell in both parts of Hampshire and Fife, and heavily in the mountainous regions of Sakhalin Island on the 15th. Light snow fell in both parts of  and Fife, and heavily in the mountainous regions of   on the .
478 dallas About 1800 out of 2400  flights at Hartsfield Jackson Atlanta Airport were cancelled on February 13. out of   flights at     were cancelled on  .
479 dallas Numerous minor car accidents happened all around the Metro Atlanta area. Numerous minor car accidents happened all around the   area.
480 dallas The fan palms (Arecaceae tribe Corypheae; palms with fan-shaped leaves) include all of the hardiest palms. The fan palms (Arecaceae tribe Corypheae; palms with fan-shaped leaves) include all of the hardiest palms.
481 dallas One of the possible reasons that the dwarf palmetto is so hardy is that it forms a subterranean trunk, and in the coldest of climates grows very slowly, rarely producing much of a noticeable trunk (but in warmer climates can attain up to 3 m of above-ground trunk). of the possible reasons that the dwarf palmetto is so hardy is that it forms a subterranean trunk, and in the coldest of climates grows very slowly, rarely producing much of a noticeable trunk (but in warmer climates can attain up to  m of above-ground trunk).
482 dallas The Cabbage Palmetto ("Sabal palmetto"), the state tree of both Florida and South Carolina, is very common on the southeast coast of the United States. The Cabbage Palmetto ("Sabal palmetto"), the state tree of both  and  , is very common on the southeast coast of the  .
483 dallas The species is considered hardy to USDA Hardiness Zone 8, and may survive short periods of temperatures as low as . The species is considered hardy to  Hardiness Zone , and may survive short periods of temperatures as low as .
484 dallas A number of Cabbage Palmettos grow in the North Atlanta area (formerly zone 7a according to the much outdated USDA zone map, now zone 8), as well as throughout the remainder part of the Atlanta metro area successfully unprotected and are now common in Virginia Beach, (Zone 8). A number of Cabbage Palmettos grow in the   area (formerly zone 7a according to the much outdated  zone map,  zone ), as well as throughout the remainder part of the  metro area successfully unprotected and are  common in  , (Zone ).
485 dallas The Mexican Palmetto ("Sabal mexicana") is a close relative of the Cabbage Palmetto, native to southern Texas and northern Mexico. The  Palmetto ("Sabal mexicana") is a close relative of the Cabbage Palmetto, native to southern  and northern .
486 dallas It looks like a more robust version of the Cabbage Palmetto, with a larger trunk, although they may be difficult to tell apart. It looks like a more robust version of the Cabbage Palmetto, with a larger trunk, although they may be difficult to tell apart.
487 dallas Cold hardy to about  and grown throughout Texas in cities such as San Antonio, Austin, and even Dallas. Cold hardy to about  and grown throughout  in cities such as  , , and even .
488 dallas Another trunking Sabal to try in Zone 8a and warmer is "Sabal uresana", its cold hardiness is similar to "Sabal palmetto". Another trunking  to try in Zone 8a and warmer is " uresana", its cold hardiness is similar to " palmetto".
489 dallas Typically "Sabal uresana" has blue fronds although a green leafed form exists and is supposedly even more cold hardy. Typically "Sabal uresana" has blue fronds although a green leafed form exists and is supposedly even more cold hardy.
490 dallas 1980 - An estimated 10,000 people perished in the 1980 United States heat wave and drought, which impacted the central and eastern United States. - An estimated  people perished in the    heat wave and drought, which impacted the central and eastern  .
491 dallas Temperatures were highest in the southern plains. Temperatures were highest in the southern plains.
492 dallas From June through September, temperatures remained above  all but two days in Kansas City, Missouri. From  through , temperatures remained above  all but   in  , .
493 dallas The Dallas/Fort Worth area experienced 42 consecutive days with high temperatures above , with temperatures reaching  at Wichita Falls, Texas on June 28. The Dallas/Fort Worth area experienced  consecutive  with high temperatures above , with temperatures reaching  at  ,  on  .
494 dallas Economic losses were $20 billion (1980 dollars). Economic losses were $20 billion ( dollars).
495 dallas November 25, 1993, vs. Miami Dolphins :On the day of the annual Thanksgiving Classic, the city of Dallas was hit with the [http://www.srh.noaa.gov/fwd/2000yearinreview.html] 4th coldest day in its history. vs.   :On   of  annual Thanksgiving   city of  was hit with  [http://www.srh.noaa.gov/fwd/2000yearinreview.html]  coldest  in its history.
496 dallas [http://www.dallascowboys.com/stadium_info.cfm] [http://www.dallascowboys.com/stadium_info.cfm]
497 dallas Before the game, a mini-bulldozer had to scrape ice off the frozen AstroTurf. Before the game, a mini-bulldozer had to scrape ice off the frozen AstroTurf.
498 dallas The temperature with 32 degrees; the wind chill in single digits, and ice and snow continued to pour into the stadium's roof. The temperature with  degrees; the wind chill in single digits, and ice and snow continued to pour into the stadium's roof.
499 dallas After a 77-yard touchdown run, Miami running back Keith Byars flopped down in the end zone and celebrated by making snow angels. After a 77-yard touchdown run,  running back   flopped down in the end zone and celebrated by making snow angels.
500 dallas Not to be outdone, Cowboy Kevin Williams returned a 64-yard punt and slid on his feet the final ten yards into the end zone. Not to be outdone,    returned a 64-yard punt and slid on his feet the final  yards into the end zone.
501 dallas Honey Grove is a small North Central Texas town (population: 1,903 as of 2007),containing a total land area of approximately , and located roughly  east of Bonham,  north of Greenville,  east of Sherman, and  northeast of the Central Business District of Dallas. Honey Grove is a small    town (population:  as of ),containing a total land area of approximately , and located roughly  east of ,  north of ,  east of , and  northeast of the  Business District of .
502 dallas Honey Grove was developed on flat to gently rolling terrain with scattered trees.Honey Grove is located in Fannin County the City is at an elevation ranging from approximate  above sea level. Honey  was developed on flat to gently rolling terrain with scattered   is located in     is at an elevation ranging from approximate  above sea level.
503 dallas U.S. Highway 82 and State Highway 56 traverse the City from east to west and State Roads 34, 100 and 824 enter the City in a north/south manner. Highway  and  Highway  traverse the City from east to west and   ,  and 4 enter the City in a north/south manner.
504 dallas Bonham is the closest major economic center. is the closest major economic center.
505 dallas The Honey Grove area climate produces an annual average daily maximum temperature of 75.1 degrees, and an average annual rainfall is . The Honey Grove area climate produces an annual average daily maximum temperature of  degrees, and an average annual rainfall is .
506 dallas On November 19, 1981, a rapid accumulation of over a foot of snow caused the roof to collapse, requiring it to be re-inflated. On   81 a rapid accumulation of over a foot of snow caused the roof to collapse requiring it to be re-inflated.
507 dallas It deflated the following winter on December 30, 1982, again because of a tear caused by heavy snow. It deflated    on    again because of a tear caused by heavy snow.
508 dallas This was four days before the Vikings played the Dallas Cowboys in the last regular-season game of the 1982 NFL season. This was   before the  played the   in the last regular-season game of the   season.
509 dallas In the spring following that same winter, on April 14, 1983, the Metrodome roof deflated because of a tear caused by a late-season heavy snow, and the scheduled Twins' game with the California Angels was postponed. In the  following that same  on    the Metrodome roof deflated because of a tear caused by a late-season heavy snow and the scheduled ' game with the   was postponed.
510 dallas On April 26, 1986, the Metrodome roof suffered a slight tear because of high winds, causing a nine-minute delay in the bottom of the seventh inning versus the Angels; however the roof did not deflate. On    the  roof suffered a slight tear because of high winds causing a  delay in the bottom of the  inning versus the ; however the roof did not deflate.
511 dallas Snowfall varies greatly in this climate zone. Snowfall varies greatly in this climate zone.
512 dallas In locations at the southern limits of this zone and areas around the Gulf Coast, cities such as Orlando, Tampa, Houston, and New Orleans rarely see snowfall, which occurs, at most, a few times per generation. In locations at the southern limits of this zone and areas around the  , cities such as , , , and   rarely see snowfall, which occurs, at most, a few times per generation.
513 dallas In Southern cities farther north or inland, such as Birmingham, Atlanta, Memphis, Little Rock, Nashville, Dallas, Norfolk, Charlotte, and Raleigh, snow typically falls once or twice a season and is usually three inches or less. In  cities farther north or inland, such as , , ,  , , , , , and , snow typically falls  or twice a season and is usually  inches or less.
514 dallas Ice storms are not unusual at these locations. Ice storms are not unusual at these locations.
515 dallas However for the majority of the winter here, temperatures remain above or well above freezing, with slight plant growth. However for the majority of the  here, temperatures remain above or well above freezing, with slight plant growth.
516 dallas In the northern limits of this climate zone, cities such as Philadelphia and New York City experience snow every winter, sometimes accumulating heavily although it melts more quickly than in regions to the north. In the northern limits of this climate zone, cities such as  and    experience snow every winter, sometimes accumulating heavily although it melts more quickly than in regions to the north.
517 dallas Throughout its life, Allen moved through the deep tropics on a west-northwesterly course through the tropical Atlantic Ocean, Caribbean Sea, and Gulf of Mexico before making landfall near the United States/Mexico border. Throughout its life,  moved through the deep tropics on a west-northwesterly course through the tropical  ,  , and Gulf of  before making landfall near the  States/ border.
518 dallas At peak strength, it passed near Haiti, causing hundreds of deaths and heavy damage. At peak strength, it passed near , causing hundreds of deaths and heavy damage.
519 dallas After crossing the Gulf of Mexico, Allen weakened as it struck the lower Texas coast, causing high winds, a significant storm surge, and heavy rainfall which caused damage to southern Texas. After crossing the   ,  weakened as it struck the lower  coast, causing high winds, a significant storm surge, and heavy rainfall which caused damage to southern .
520 dallas Overall, Allen killed 290 people and left just over $1.5 billion in damage (1980 USD), mostly within the United States and Haiti. Overall,  killed  people and left just over $1.5 billion in damage ( USD), mostly within the   and .
521 dallas Due to its impact, the name Allen was retired from the six-year revolving list of Atlantic tropical cyclone names in 1981 and the name was replaced by "Andrew". Due to its impact, the name  was retired from the  revolving list of  tropical cyclone names in  and the name was replaced by "Andrew".
522 dallas The name Andrew was subsequently retired after the 1992 season's Hurricane Andrew. The name  was subsequently retired after the  season's Hurricane .
523 dallas The dissipating storm precipitated the end of the Heat Wave of 1980 in places like Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas, which had recorded 69 days of  heat. The dissipating storm precipitated the end of the Heat Wave of  in places like  , , which had recorded   of  heat.
524 dallas Storm surge was measured at 22 feet (6.6 m) near the heads of bays, in some places penetrating 10 miles inland. Storm surge was measured at  feet ( m) near the heads of bays, in some places penetrating  miles inland.
525 dallas Because of its large size, the entire Texas coast was affected, and damage was reported as far inland as Dallas. Because of its large size, the entire  coast was affected, and damage was reported as far inland as .
526 dallas Sustained winds were reported to be 115 mph in Matagorda, 110 mph in Victoria and 88 mph in Galveston. Sustained winds were reported to be  mph in ,  mph in  and  mph in .
527 dallas Wind gusts as high as 170 mph were recorded at Port Lavaca. Wind gusts as high as  mph were recorded at  .
528 dallas Pressure at landfall was measured at 931 mb (hPa), making it the eighth most intense hurricane to strike the United States in the 20th century. Pressure at landfall was measured at  mb (hPa), making it   most intense hurricane to strike    in   .
529 dallas Then little-known newsman Dan Rather reported live from the Galveston Seawall during the storm, an act that would be imitated by later reporters. Then little-known newsman   reported live from the   during the storm, an act that would be imitated by later reporters.
530 dallas This marked the first live television broadcast of a hurricane. This marked the  live television broadcast of a hurricane.
531 dallas On September 13, Ike began a slow turn north, then northeast. On  ,  began a slow turn north, then northeast.
532 dallas After losing strength to tropical-storm force winds near Palestine, Texas around 1 pm, it passed  to the east of Dallas and west of Little Rock, Arkansas. After losing strength to tropical-storm force winds near ,  around 1 pm, it passed  to the east of  and west of  , .
533 dallas Maintaining tropical storm-force winds as it moved inland, it tracked across Arkansas on the night of September 13 and also produced tornadoes across the state. Maintaining tropical storm-force winds as it moved inland, it tracked across  on the night of   and also produced tornadoes across the state.
534 dallas It brought heavy rainfall all along its path, but moved more quickly the farther north it went as it slowly lost tropical characteristics. It brought heavy rainfall all along its path, but moved more quickly the farther north it went as it slowly lost tropical characteristics.
535 dallas By late Thursday (22nd) morning, the contraflow lanes had been ordered opened after officials determined that the state's highway system had become gridlocked. By   () morning, the contraflow lanes had been ordered opened after officials determined that the state's highway system had become gridlocked.
536 dallas The Texas Department of Transportation was unprepared to execute such a large-scale evacuation. The     was unprepared to execute such a large-scale evacuation.
537 dallas Coordination and implementation of the contraflow plan took 8 to 10 hours as inbound traffic was forced to exit. Coordination and implementation of the contraflow plan ok     as inbound traffic was forced  exit.
538 dallas Police were stationed to assist with traffic flow. Police were stationed to assist with traffic flow.
539 dallas Evacuees fought traffic Wednesday afternoon through mid-day Friday, moving only a fraction of the normal distance expected. Evacuees fought traffic  afternoon through mid-day , moving only a fraction of the normal distance expected.
540 dallas Average travel times to Dallas were 24–36 hours, travel times to Austin were 12–18 hours and travel times to San Antonio were 10–16 hours, depending on the point of departure in Houston. Average travel times to  were – , travel times to  were –  and travel times to   were – , depending on the point of departure in .
541 dallas Many motorists ran out of gas or experienced breakdowns in temperatures that neared 100 °F (38 °C). Many motorists ran out of gas or experienced breakdowns in temperatures that neared  F ( C).
542 dallas Traffic volumes did not ease for nearly 48 hours as more than three million residents evacuated the area in advance of the storm. Traffic volumes did not ease for    as more than   residents evacuated the area in advance of the storm.
543 dallas More recent prehistoric impacts are theorized  by the Holocene Impact Working Group, including Dallas Abbott of Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. More recent prehistoric impacts are theorized  by the    , including     's   .
544 dallas This group points to four enormous chevron sediment deposits at the southern end of Madagascar, containing deep-ocean microfossils fused with metals typically formed by cosmic impacts. This group points to  enormous chevron sediment deposits at the southern end of , containing deep-ocean microfossils fused with metals typically formed by cosmic impacts.
545 dallas All of the chevrons point toward a spot in the middle of the Indian Ocean corresponding with the newly hypothesized Burckle crater proposed to be some  in diameter, or about 25 times larger than Barringer Crater. All of the chevrons point toward a spot in the middle of the   corresponding with the newly hypothesized  crater proposed to be some  in diameter, or about  times larger than Barringer Crater.
546 dallas This group posits that a large asteroid or comet impact c. 2800-3000 BCE produced a mega-tsunami at least  high, a catastrophic event that would have affected humanity's cradles of civilization. This group posits that a large asteroid or comet impact c.   produced a mega-tsunami at least  high, a catastrophic event that would have affected humanity's cradles of civilization.
547 dallas The evidence for the proposed crater has been challenged. The evidence for the proposed crater has been challenged.
548 dallas Because of the short distances between major cities in the U.S. and the Confederacy, neither nation developed a long-range bomber between the wars. Because of the short distances between major cities in the  and the Confederacy, neither nation developed a long-range bomber between the wars.
549 dallas Instead, bomber development focused on increased bomb load and armament. Instead, bomber development focused on increased bomb load and armament.
550 dallas This proved to be a disadvantage in the Pacific War and during the Second Great War with Japan. This proved to be a disadvantage in the   and during the    with .
551 dallas Philadelphia and Richmond were raided routinely in both the Great War and the Second Great War, incurring heavy damage. and  were raided routinely in both the   and the   , incurring heavy damage.
552 dallas A Confederate air raid in 1942 killed President Al Smith; a retaliatory raid heavily damaged the Gray House, although President Featherston had moved to a heavily fortified underground bunker beneath Shockoe Hill. A Confederate air raid in  killed President  ; a retaliatory raid heavily damaged the  , although President  had moved to a heavily fortified underground bunker beneath  .
553 dallas New York could be reached by bombers with more fuel and less payload, and was less damaged. could be reached by bombers with more fuel and less payload, and was less damaged.
554 dallas In the West, U.S. bombers based in Clovis, New Mexico, caused significant damage to Dallas and Fort Worth in 1942 in daylight raids. In the ,  bombers based in ,  , caused significant damage to  and   in  in daylight raids.
555 dallas In late 1997, Warren Spector was asked to found the Austin branch of Ion Storm. In  ,   was asked to found the  branch of Ion Storm.
556 dallas By keeping well clear of the troubles at the Dallas office, Ion Storm (Austin) was more successful. By keeping well clear of the troubles at the  office, Ion Storm () was more successful.
557 dallas It developed the highly successful and critically acclaimed Deus Ex. It developed the highly successful and critically acclaimed Deus Ex.
558 dallas With the demise of Looking Glass Studios, Eidos Interactive secured the rights to the "Thief" franchise and together with Spector tried to relocate as many of the Looking Glass team to Austin as was possible. With the demise of   ,   secured the rights to the "Thief" franchise and together with  tried to relocate as many of the   team to  as was possible.
559 dallas The storm affected the Dallas, Texas area, bringing a coating of ice to the ground after a rapid freeze. The storm affected the ,  area, bringing a coating of ice to the ground after a rapid freeze.
560 dallas This caused some damage ahead of Super Bowl XLV. This caused some damage ahead of Super Bowl XLV.
561 dallas Snow falling from the roof of Cowboys Stadium caused several injuries. Snow falling from the roof of Cowboys Stadium caused several injuries.
562 dallas The "January 31 – February 2, 2011 North American winter storm", also called the "2011 Groundhog Day Blizzard", was a powerful and historic winter storm, situated around the US and Canadian holiday Groundhog Day. The "  –   011    storm" also called the "011   " was a powerful and historic  storm situated around the  and  holiday  .
563 dallas In the initial stages of the storm, some meteorologists predicted that the system would affect over 100 million people in the United States. In the initial stages of the storm, some meteorologists predicted that the system would affect over   people in the  .
564 dallas The storm brought cold air, heavy snowfall, blowing snow, and mixed precipitation on a path from New Mexico and northern Texas to New England and Eastern Canada. The storm brought cold air, heavy snowfall, blowing snow, and mixed precipitation on a path from   and northern  to   and  .
565 dallas The Chicago area saw between 1 and 2 feet of snow and blizzard conditions, with winds of over 60 mph. The  area saw between    feet of snow  blizzard conditions, with winds of over  mph.
566 dallas With such continuous winds, the Blizzard kept going north and affected Eastern and Atlantic Canada. With such continuous winds, the  kept going north and affected  and  .
567 dallas The most notable area affected in Canada was Toronto and the Greater Toronto Area. The most notable area affected in  was  and the   .
568 dallas Blizzard conditions affected many other large cities along the storm's path, including Tulsa, Oklahoma City, Kansas City, St. Louis, Springfield, El Paso, Las Cruces, Des Moines, Milwaukee, Detroit, Indianapolis, Dayton, Cleveland, New York, New York's Capital District, and Boston. Blizzard conditions affected many other large cities along the storm's path, including ,  ,  ,  , ,  ,  ,  , , , , , ,  ,  's Capital District, and .
569 dallas Many other areas not normally used to extreme winter conditions, including Albuquerque, Dallas and Houston, experienced significant snowfall or ice accumulation. Many other areas not normally used to extreme  conditions, including ,  and , experienced significant snowfall or ice accumulation.
570 dallas The National Weather Service in Central Illinois issued their 4th "Blizzard Warning" in the entire forecast office's 16 year history. The    in Central Illinois issued their  "Blizzard Warning" in the entire forecast office's   history.
571 dallas Snowfall amounts of 20 to 28 inches were forecast for much of Northern and Western Illinois. Snowfall amounts of  to  inches were forecast for much of Northern and  .
572 dallas In Texas, the storm caused widespread disruption of road and air traffic, including flights into and out of Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport and Love Field. In , the storm caused widespread disruption of road and air traffic, including flights into and out of     and Love Field.
573 dallas Rolling blackouts were instituted across the state as high demand for electricity left the power grid overloaded and unable to handle the demand. Rolling blackouts were instituted across the state as high demand for electricity left the power grid overloaded and unable to handle the demand.
574 dallas Governor Rick Perry asked for citizens to conserve as much electricity as they can to help ease the overloaded power grids. Governor   asked for citizens to conserve as much electricity as they can to help ease the overloaded power grids.
575 dallas ERCOT, the governing body responsible for most of the electricity distribution in Texas, reported that more than 75% of the state was affected by rolling blackouts on February 2nd; at one point demand for energy was so great that utility companies began to purchase electricity off the national grids to meet the demand. , the governing body responsible for most of the electricity distribution in , reported that more than 75% of the state was affected by rolling blackouts on  ; at  point demand for energy was so great that utility companies began to purchase electricity off the national grids to meet the demand.
576 dallas Parts of Texas were expected to experience additional rolling blackouts Wednesday and Thursday as workers labor to get the electric systems back up and running. Parts of  were expected to experience additional rolling blackouts  and  as workers labor to get the electric systems back up and running.
577 dallas Throughout the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex, multiple large school districts were closed for a record-setting 5 days in a row, letting students out a whole week because of road hazards due to ice and snow. Throughout the   , multiple large school districts were closed for a record-setting   in a row, letting students out a whole  because of road hazards due to ice and snow.
578 dallas An ice storm affected areas as far south as Houston behind the main storm front, while three men were killed near Houston in traffic accidents. An ice storm affected areas as far south as  behind the main storm front, while  men were killed near  in traffic accidents.
579 dallas The storm adversely affected activities in the week leading up to Super Bowl XLV, which was played at Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Texas. The storm adversely affected activities in   leading up to   , which was played at   in , .
580 dallas Jim Cummins had an extensive family consisting of his wife, Connie of Dallas; three daughters, Chrissy Cummins and Molly Cummins, both of Dallas, and Kim of Lafayette; three sons, John Cummins of Dallas, Billy Cummins, a student of University of Oklahoma, and Doug Cummins of Waco; two brothers, Richard Cummins of New York and Bob Cummins of Sarasota; and two grandchildren. had an extensive family consisting  his wife, Connie  ;  daughters,   and  , both  , and   ;  sons,    ,  , a student    , and    ;  brothers,      and    ; and  grandchildren.
581 dallas He also coached youth baseball and basketball teams for his six children. He also coached youth baseball and basketball teams for his  children.
582 dallas On May 2, 2009, the Dallas Cowboys practice facility collapsed during a wind storm. On   009 the   practice facility collapsed during a wind storm.
583 dallas The collapse left DeCamillis and 11 other Cowboys players and coaches injured. The collapse left  and  other Cowboys players and coaches injured.
584 dallas DeCamillis and Rich Behm, the team's 33-year-old scouting assistant, received the most severe injuries. and  , the team's  scouting assistant, received the most severe injuries.
585 dallas DeCamillis suffered fractured cervical vertebrae and had surgery to stabilize fractured vertebrae in his neck, and Behm was permanently paralyzed from the waist down after his spine was severed. suffered fractured cervical vertebrae and had surgery to stabilize fractured vertebrae in his neck, and  was permanently paralyzed from the waist down after his spine was severed.
586 dallas DeCamillis received much praise from the media and fans in the months following the incident for continuing to coach in his high energy style, wearing a neck brace, only 9 days following the incident. received much praise from  media and fans in   following  incident for continuing to coach in his high energy style, wearing a neck brace, only   following  incident.
587 dallas He was finally able to remove the brace on August 10, 2009. He was finally able to remove the brace on   .
588 dallas Hoffman was a member of the team who flew a mass spectrometer on the European Space Agency's Giotto mission to Halley's Comet in 1986. was a member of the team who flew a mass spectrometer on the   's Giotto mission to 's Comet in .
589 dallas This instrument was developed by laboratories in four countries, three European and at UT Dallas. This instrument was developed by laboratories in  countries,   and at  .
590 dallas It measured both the neutral and ionized constituents of the comet's coma. It measured both the neutral and ionized constituents of the comet's coma.
591 dallas The coma contains, besides water vapor and H30 ions, an extended source of carbon monoxide. The coma contains, besides water vapor and H30 ions, an extended source of carbon monoxide.
592 dallas The atmosphere forms around a comet as it comes near the sun and is heated by radiation from the sun. The atmosphere forms around a comet as it comes near the sun and is heated by radiation from the sun.
593 dallas Dr. Hoffman is a co-investigator for the TEGA experiment that will fly on the Mars Scout Phoenix mission in 2007. Dr.  is a co-investigator for the  experiment that will fly on the Mars Scout  mission in .
594 dallas The spacecraft will land in the far northern region of Mars, above the Arctic Circle in the area that the Mars Odyssey spacecraft has found evidence for water. The spacecraft will land in the far northern region of Mars, above the   in the area that the Mars Odyssey spacecraft has found evidence for water.
595 dallas An arm on the lander will dig a trench a meter deep in the surface of Mars to look for water ice and other water related substances (minerals). An arm on the lander will dig a trench a meter deep in the surface of Mars to look for water ice and other water related substances (minerals).
596 dallas These will be scooped up and analyzed in a series of small furnaces. These will be scooped up and analyzed in a series of small furnaces.
597 dallas The effluents from the furnaces will be analyzed by the UT Dallas mass spectrometer to determine the presence of water and the mineralogical composition of soil samples. The effluents from the furnaces will be analyzed by the UT  mass spectrometer to determine the presence of water and the mineralogical composition of soil samples.
598 dallas Isotopic ratios of the principal elements in the samples will be determined and compared to the isotopic ratios of the atmospheric gases that will be measured by the mass spectrometer when it is not analyzing samples from the TEGA furnaces. Isotopic ratios of the principal elements in the samples will be determined and compared to the isotopic ratios of the atmospheric gases that will be measured by the mass spectrometer when it is not analyzing samples from the  furnaces.
