The second part of the miniseries begins with Dr. Hill's rescue from the ruins of the Atlas Hotel just before it is swallowed up completely.
At the same time, a massive fault line forms in North Dakota, passing through South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, and Oklahoma.
If it reaches Houston, Texas and the Gulf of Mexico, as predicted, the mid-western plains will be covered by a new ocean, just as they were thousands of years ago.
A massive evacuation of the region is ordered, as earthquakes strike Sedona, Arizona destroying the Chapel of the Holy Cross in the process.
However, the (fictional) nuclear plant in Red Plains, Texas, is right in the fault's path.
If it is destroyed, the entire area and hundreds of miles around will be contaminated by nuclear waste.

Dr. Earl Hill comes up with a desperate plan to divert the fault around the nuclear plant by opening up a secondary fault running east, by a controlled demolition which explosively ignites the massive natural gas reserves in the area.
The main fault follows the new path around Red Plains, saving the nuclear plant.
However, nothing can stop the fault altogether.
Once again it turns south, slicing through the middle of Houston to reach the Gulf of Mexico.
At the same time, the northern half of the fault has reached Hudson Bay.
When the waters rush into the fault, they create a new ocean which splits the United States and Canada in half.

"14 Hours" is based on the harrowing events of June 2001, when Tropical Storm Allison stalled over the Houston metropolitan area, pouring nearly 30 inches of rain on the city within a 14-hour period.
The story begins as the storm seems to be moving away from Houston.
Jeanette Makins (JoBeth Williams), a nurse at Memorial Hermann Hospital, arrives ready for what she expects to be a normal day.
But Tropical Storm Allison's rains return, quickly turning a normal day into a nightmare.
As floodwaters inundate the lower levels of the hospital, a brilliant young surgeon, Dr. Foster (Rick Schroder), makes the decision to move the patients to safer ground, including a young couple whose premature baby is struggling for life, as well as,  a girl and her mother, severely hurt in a car accident.
With the resourceful thinking of Chuck Whortle (Kris Kristofferson), chief of Harris County Emergency Management, the hospital staff and volunteers race against the clock to get all patients to safety.

A tropical storm  was first sighted north of the Yucatan Peninsula on June 8.The storm moved northwest and then north, eventually hitting Houston, Texas.
The storm track was nearly identical to that of Tropical Storm One in terms of wind speed and point of landfall.
Many ships were wrecked and several houses and a church destroyed at Galveston.
Rain from this cyclone aggravated the flooding in New Orleans caused by Tropical Storm One a week earlier.

A strong,  tropical storm  was first observed south of Florida on June 1.
The storm traversed through the Gulf of Mexico before making landfall near Houston, Texas as a tropical storm on June 4, where a minimum pressure of 999 mbar was measured.
A station in Galveston, Texas recorded  of rain during a 14 minute time span on June 4.
Galveston was partially flooded with some railroads and buildings washed away.
One vessel, the steamship "Alabama" was thrown ashore at Galveston,while another,the "Virginia Dare" grounded on an offshore sandbar there.
Extremely heavy rains associated with this cyclone also caused flooding in New Orleans.
The New York Times,on June 6,reported that five hundred blocks of the city were submerged.
Eventually the storm dissipated in present-day Oklahoma.

The Atlantic hurricane database (HURDAT) recognizes eight tropical cyclones for the 1871 season.
Two were tropical storms and six were hurricanes, with winds of 75 mph (119 km/h) or greater.Tropical Storm One travelled from south of Florida on June 1 to make landfall near Houston, Texas before dissipating further inland.The second tropical storm of the season also made landfall near Houston.Both storms caused considerable damage in Galveston and brought flooding to New Orleans.The third cyclone of the season, and the first hurricane, travelled west from the Bahamas to make landfall in central Florida.It passed through Florida, Georgia and South Carolina and out into the Atlantic.There it looped back and made landfall in Georgia as a tropical storm.Hurricane Four, the second hurricane of the season, started as a tropical storm west of Cape Verde.It crossed the Atlantic to make landfall, first in the Lesser Antilles,then in the Bahamas and then Florida before crossing the Florida peninsula into the Atlantic.Hurricane Five was a category 2 hurricane,active between August 30 and September 2, that did not make landfall anywhere.Hurricane Six was a category one hurricane that travelled from the Gulf of Mexico across Florida between September 5 and September 8.Hurricane Seven developed from a tropical storm, which was first seen in the Bay of Campeche on September 30.It strengthed to a category 1 hurricane as it travelled off the Texas coast but weakened back to a tropical storm before crossing the Florida peninsula.This cyclone was responsible for numerous shipwrecks.Hurricane Eight, the last cyclone of the season was first seen as a category 1 hurricane on October 10, north-east of the British Virgin Islands.The hurricane travelled as far north as Nova Scotia before dissipating on October 13.

On October 18 a tropical storm formed west of Jamaica.
As it neared landfall in Cuba, it strengthened to a 100 mph (160 km/h) hurricane, but weakened while crossing the island.
It passed over southeast Florida and the Bahamas, strengthening to a 100 mph (160 km/h) hurricane again before hitting North Carolina between Wilmington and Morehead City.The hurricane raced across the interior of the United States, becoming extratropical on the 24th over New York.
The hurricane caused over $2 million in damage, and at least 72 casualties.These included 19 people killed when a ship, the "A.S.Davis", was driven ashore at Virginia Beach.In all the hurricane was responsible for 22 shipwrecks.Among these was the steamer "City of Houston" which was lost on  Frying Pan Shoals.

The storm ended the rivalry between Galveston and Indianola as the chief port of Texas.
With the abandonment of Indianola and the unwillingness of the former residents to rebuild close to shore, Galveston became the most important Texan port until the 1900 Galveston Hurricane led to the rise of Houston as a major port.

The 1915 Hurricane made landfall on the Texas coast as a Category 4 hurricane with sustained winds of 135 mph (215 km/h).
The areas in Texas hardest hit were Galveston and Houston.
In Galveston, the death toll was only eleven due to a recently built seawall.
Elsewhere there were 111 fatalities (42 in Galveston Island and 62 offshore), and 102 others were reported missing and assumed dead.
Total damage was $56 million (1915 USD).

A Cape Verde type hurricane, the 1915 Hurricane was detected as a tropical storm moving westward on August 5.
Then it was officially observed on August 10 as a Category 1 hurricane.
By that time, the storm was centered north of Barbados.
On August 11, the eye of the hurricane passed south of the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico.
A weather station in San Juan recorded a 29.60 inch (987 mbar) pressure reading and winds up to 60 mph (110 km/h).
The hurricane continued to move westward between 18 and 20 mph (25–30 km/h) where it brushed Haiti and made landfall in Jamaica.
A barometric pressure reading of 29.68 inch (983 mbar) was reported in Jamaica.
The 1915 hurricane then turned slightly west-northwest, brushing Cuba as it went along.
Unfazed by the landfall on Jamaica, the hurricane rapidly intensified and was located near Isle of Pines, Cuba on August 14 with 145 mph (230 km/h) winds.
On the 15th, the hurricane was in the central Gulf of Mexico still moving in a northwesterly direction.
On August 16, the center of the storm was approaching the east coast of Texas, where the storm weakened slightly but was still a Category 4 storm.
On the 17th, the hurricane made landfall southwest of Galveston, Texas.
Atmospheric pressure at landfall was at 27.76 inches (940 mbar) and 135 mph (215 km/h) winds.
After leaving Galveston, the weakening storm took a turn to the northeast and passed Houston as a Category 1 hurricane before dropping to tropical storm status later that day.
On August 20, the dying storm passed over Missouri and the Ohio Valley before finally becoming extratropical on August 23.

In Houston, the hurricane brought  winds and heavy rainfall that left $1 million (1915 USD) in damage, but there were no reports of fatalities or deaths in the city.
The storm significantly damaged much of the cotton, corn, and rice harvests.

A tropical storm formed in the western Caribbean before moving across the Yucatan peninsula into the southern Gulf of Mexico.
The storm recurved towards the north, strengthening into a category 1 hurricane before it struck Sargent, Texas.
During the night of June 21, winds increased to  at Corpus Christi, Texas.
A barge with 18,000 gallons of oil sank in Port Aransas, Texas.
A storm surge of  was measured at  Pass Cavallo.
As the cyclone moved inland, it passed directly over Palacios, Texas, Wharton, Texas, and Wallis, Texas.
Winds gusted to  at both Galveston, Texas and Houston, Texas.
Heavy rains accompanied the system, with  recorded at Matagorda, Texas.

Tropical Storm Two formed off the western coast of Florida on September 16 and began moving west-southwest.
Operationally, the cyclone was first observed on September 18, to the south of Louisiana.
After intensifying to a Category 1 hurricane, the storm began drifting southward towards the Yucatan Peninsula, ultimately executing a clockwise loop.
By September 21 it had turned northward before assuming a more northwestward course.
It moved across the western Gulf of Mexico and went ashore in Texas on September 23.
It curved towards the northeast, passing just east of Houston, and accelerated as it continued to move inland.
The cyclone transitioned into an extratropical storm on September 24, and was last recorded in southern Quebec.

The "1941 Texas hurricane", the second storm of the 1941 Atlantic hurricane season, was a tropical cyclone that struck coastal Texas in September 1941, causing relatively severe damage.
The storm is estimated to have formed in the eastern Gulf of Mexico on September 16.
After attaining hurricane strength, it completed a clockwise loop and turned northwestward.
The hurricane made landfall near Matagorda, Texas and rapidly weakened.
Damage from the storm amounted to about $6.5 million, and crops throughout the region were largely destroyed.
The city of Houston suffered extensive damage as the storm passed to the east.
The hurricane disrupted activities related to the Louisiana Maneuvers.
Later, the system became extratropical and dissipated over Lake Huron, killing three people in Toronto.
Overall, seven people lost their lives due to the cyclone.

As the hurricane moved inland, the city of Houston was hit especially hard.
Three people in the area died and several others were injured.
Winds blew at up to , catching many off-guard after a previous forecast that deemed the region was safe.
Some sections of the city were left without power.
The winds destroyed poorly built structures and damaged others, and some streets were flooded.
An athletic stadium was demolished by the storm, and glass windows were shattered in downtown stores.
A preliminary estimate placed the damage in Houston at $500,000.
In the aftermath of the storm, fifteen truckloads of shattered glass were removed.

In advance of the storm, advisories and warnings were widely distributed by press, radio, telegraph and telephone.
About 25,000 residents evacuated their homes; some small towns along the coast were described as "deserted".
People in low-lying areas of coastal Louisiana sought shelter as storm surge from the hurricane affected the northern Gulf Coast.
Residents in Texas prepared their homes and businesses for the hurricane, and boat owners pulled their craft out of the water.
In Port Arthur, structures were boarded up and hundreds of refugees sought shelter in local hotels.
American Red Cross workers were dispatched to the state.
In Houston, a temporary hospital was erected.
Police and firefighters in the city were put on alert.
Vessels near the storm were advised to proceed with caution.

By September 22, the hurricane had begun to weaken, although it maintained hurricane status for a couple more days.
The cyclone tracked generally northwestward, crossing the western half of the gulf, and moved ashore near Matagorda, Texas, during the afternoon hours of September 23; on making landfall, it weakened to a tropical storm.
Continuing inland, the storm, quickly deteriorating, accelerate northeastward.
The center of the storm passed just to the east of Houston, where barometric pressure fell to 971 mb, the lowest recorded in association with the hurricane.
The storm became extratropical late on September 24, as it progressed rapidly through the Mississippi Valley; its remnants eventually entered southern portions of Quebec.

An area of convection over the Bay of Campeche rapidly developed on August 24, reaching hurricane strength that night.
It moved northward, paralleling the Mexican and Texas coastlines while intensifying, and made landfall on August 28 near Port Aransas in central Texas as a 140 mph (225 km/h) Category 4 hurricane.
The hurricane weakened to a 75 mph (120 km/h) Category 1 hurricane shortly after moving inland and passing near Houston, and the system weakened to a tropical storm shortly thereafter before weakening to a depression and dissipating inland over central Texas on August 29.
Towns from Freeport to Brownsville were subjected to hurricane-force winds, causing around $20 million (1945 US dollars) in damages, and three deaths.

The storm moved ashore near Freeport during the night of October 3, and after significantly weakening, it passed directly over Houston; the next storm to do so would be Hurricane Alicia in 1983.
Upon moving inland, the hurricane quickly deteriorated, and is estimated to have downgraded into a tropical storm within six hours of making landfall.
It turned northeastward as it continued through the central United States, weakening to a tropical depression by October 6.
It persisted until October 8, when it is believed to have dissipated near Chicago, Illinois.

Throughout 10 cities in Texas, 50,000 sought shelter in advance of the hurricane.
An estimated 28,000 residents fled to shelters; around 5,000 stayed in the Houston City Auditorium.
Tropical cyclone watches and warnings were issued along coastal areas of Texas and Louisiana.
Pioneer Airlines removed its aircraft from Houston, while small watercraft were kept safe in port.
Schools in Corpus Christi closed by October 3, as well as businesses in the threatened area.

The hurricane produced winds of  just west of Freeport, accompanied by an air pressure of  and tides of  above normal.
Precipitation from the storm was heavy, peaking at  at Goodrich.
Rainfall extended eastward into Louisiana, amounting to  at Shreveport, Louisiana.
Urban areas sustained generally light damage.
In Houston, the winds shattered some store windows and distributed debris.
Galveston was temporarily cut off from the mainland during the hurricane when water surpassed the city's seawall.
The hurricane spawned a minor tornado which struck the community of Riceville, injuring on two children.
Freeport reportedly suffered the worst damage, costing approximately $150,000.

Heavy rainfall was reported, peaking at  in Port Lavaca.
As a result, water  was reported in several homes and businesses in Port Lavaca.
Two boys drowned in Port Lavaca after being swept by flood waters into the city harbor.
Over  fell in Bay City, and it was reported by the Bay City Tribune that all of Matagorda County was "under water".
Due to large amounts of precipitation, portions of U.S. Route 87, U.S. Route 59, U.S. Route 90, former U.S. Route 185, Texas State Highway 71, and Texas State Highway 35 were closed.
Rainfall totals in the Houston area peaked at more than .
At the height of the storm, about one-fourth of the streets in Houston were flooded.
Three subdivisions of the city were significantly affected by flooding: Alameda Plaza, Pleasantville, and Sunnyside.
Several shingles were blown off the roof of a house, and then water caused the roof to collapse into the dining room and living room.
However, no one was injured or killed.
Several hundred people were evacuated from places with poor drainage or low-lying areas.
Between 150 and 200 houses were affected by flooding and damaged estimates reached $1.5 million (1960 USD) in Houston and elsewhere in Harris County.
In addition, three people drowned in the flood waters in Houston.

Tropical Depression Seven formed in mid-August and tracked through the Windward Islands before dissipating in the eastern Caribbean Sea.
Tropical Depression Eight led to a significant flooding event between San Antonio and Houston on August 30 and August 31 while recurving through Texas into Louisiana.
Hurricane Emily formed on September 1 southeast of Bermuda.
Emily made a cyclonic loop as a tropical storm.
Emily strengthened into a hurricane out in the North Atlantic Ocean and by September 12, was no longer identifiable.
Hurricane Floyd was a Category 3 hurricane that grazed Bermuda, but no damage was reported.
Hurricane Gert formed September 8, strengthened into a Category 2 hurricane, and followed the same track as Floyd, dissipating near the Azores.
Hurricane Harvey became the strongest storm of the season, reaching Category 4 strength.
Harvey never affected land, but ships reported tropical storm-force winds.
Tropical Depression Thirteen brought gusts of tropical storm force to Bermuda in mid to late September.
Hurricane Irene also stayed out at sea, reaching Category 3 strength and was extratropical in early October.
The extratropical Irene made landfall in France.

This tropical depression formed in the Bay of Campeche on August 26 and moved slowly northwest, moving ashore northeast Mexico on August 29 and into the United States on August 30.
As an ill-defined surface low, a large thunderstorm complex formed near its center that day, unleashing heavy rainfall in a band  wide which stretched along a path  long from Seguin, Texas to north of Houston, Texas.
The highest rainfall amount reported was from Pine Springs in Fayette County, Texas, where  fell in the 24 hour period ending on the morning of August 31.
Five died in the town of Shiner, Texas due to the flood.
Downtown Halletsville flooded to a depth of .
Significant flooding occurred along the Lavaca, Guadalupe, and Colorado rivers in Texas.
The cyclone spawned 14 tornadoes as well, including one at Scholes Field in Galveston, Texas which produced winds as high as  at 7:15 pm on August 31.

As Alicia moved northward, the remnants caused moderate to heavy rainfall in several states.
Houston suffered heavy damage, including thousands of shattered glass panes from downtown skyscrapers.
In the end, Alicia killed 22 people and caused $2 billion (1983 US$) in damage ($4.1 billion, 2007 USD).

The "1995 Colima-Jalisco earthquake" was a Mw 8.0 earthquake which occurred on October 9 at 15:36 UTC, off the coast of Jalisco, Mexico.
At least 49 people died and 100 were injured because of the earthquake.
The earthquake triggered a tsunami, which affected a 200 km stretch of the coast.
The Cihuatlan-Manzanillo area, Colima, was more severely affected than other areas.
The earthquake could be felt in Mexico City and in high-rise buildings in Dallas and Houston.
The intensities in Colima and Jalisco reached MM VI.

Aided by drought, a heat wave persisted in late Summer 2000 along the southern tier of the United States from July to early September of that year.
Near the end of the period, daily, monthly, and even all-time record high temperatures were broken, with highs commonly peaking well over 100 degrees Fahrenheit.
On September 4, Houston hit 109 F and Dallas peaked at 111 F[http://www.wunderground.com/history/airport/KDFW/2000/9/5/MonthlyHistory.html?req_city=NA&req_state=NA&req_statename=NA]; on September 5, Austin, Texas [http://www.wunderground.com/history/airport/KAUS/2000/9/5/DailyHistory.html] and San Antonio peaked at 111 F [http://www.wunderground.com/history/airport/KSAT/2000/9/5/MonthlyHistory.html] while College Station reached 111 F on both the 4th and 5th of September [http://www.wunderground.com/history/airport/KCLL/2000/9/5/MonthlyHistory.html?req_city=NA&req_state=NA&req_statename=NA].
Damage totaled $4 billion, and there were 140 deaths.[http://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/oa/reports/billionz.html]

The 2001 season was severe in terms of damages.
The most noteworthy storms include Tropical Storm Allison, Hurricane Iris, and Hurricane Michelle.
The United States was directly affected by three tropical cyclones, the first of which was Allison.
Tropical Storm Allison was a major flood disaster throughout its path from Texas to the Mid-Atlantic.
The worst of the flooding occurred in Houston, Texas, where over 35 in (890 mm) of rain fell.
The storm killed 41 people, of which 27 drowned.
The storm also caused over $5 billion in damage (2001 USD; $  USD), making it the deadliest and costliest tropical storm on record in the United States.
Allison destroyed 2,744 homes, leaving 30,000 homeless with residential damages totaling to $1.76 billion (2001 USD; $  USD).
Tropical Storm Barry affected Florida; rainfall peaked at  at Tallahassee, and winds gusts topped out at .
Three people in Florida were killed by the storm, and total damage is estimated at around $30 million (2001 USD; $  USD).
Later, Hurricane Gabrielle produced moderate winds along coastal areas of western Florida, reaching  at Venice.
The tide flooded the northern shoreline of Charlotte Harbor and at the entrance to the Peace River, while further to the south a surge of greater than  inundated the barrier island at Fort Myers Beach and flooded some cars.

At least 29 people were killed, 300 injured, about 10,000 were left homeless, 2,005 houses were destroyed and 6,615  were damaged.
Most of the deaths and damage occurred in the Villa de Álvarez area of Colima.
Extensive damage (rating VIII) occurred in  the city of Colima and in Tecomán.
Some deaths and damage occurred in the states of Jalisco and Michoacán and a few buildings were damaged as far away as Guanajuato and Morelos.
The quake was felt strongly (rating VI) in parts of Mexico City.
It was also felt in most of Mexico and in the United States in Corpus Christi, Texas, Dallas, Texas and El Paso, Texas.
Occupants of high-rise buildings in Houston, Texas also reported feeling its effects.
Landslides closed a segment of the Colima-Guadalajara Highway and the port of Manzanillo.
Power and telephone outages occurred in Mexico City.
A local tsunami of about 1 m (peak-to-trough) was recorded at Manzanillo.
A seiche was observed on Lake Pontchartrain in the US state of Louisiana, and sediment was stirred up in several Louisiana wells.

The fact that the snow accumulated overnight on Christmas Eve led to a White Christmas the next morning, something completely foreign to the region.
The city of Houston recorded the first White Christmas in its history.
Across all of southern Texas and in southwestern Louisiana, snow fell in places where it had not for anywhere from 15 to 120 years.
Near the coast, in Corpus Christi, Texas,  of snow fell, more snow than in all previous recorded years combined.
This was also the case in Victoria, Texas, where a significant  fell.
In addition to the unusual occurrence of snow inland, moderate to heavy snow was also reported over the open waters of the Gulf of Mexico.
This is the first significant snow fall in Houston since February 12, 1960 when a snowstorm hit central and south Texas with eight to 10 inches of snow.

Rita damaged wells in the western Gulf of Mexico which were primarily exploratory, leading to concerns that future production would be damped for some time to come.
Additionally, as the storm churned in the Gulf, forecasters predicted that it would strike Houston, Texas, the location of many major oil refineries that survived Katrina, leading to additional spikes in oil prices before the predictions changed.
In Georgia, Governor Sonny Perdue declared "snow days" on September 26 and September 27, 2005, at all Georgia public schools to conserve fuel for school buses in anticipation of Rita's impact.
However, as the storm veered away from Houston shortly before landfall, damage to refining capacity was not as great as feared.

Hurricane Rita formed as a tropical storm over the Turks and Caicos Islands on September 18.
The storm reached Category 2 intensity as it moved south of the Florida Keys on September 20.
Rapid intensification ensued as Rita moved into the Gulf of Mexico, and Rita became a Category 5 hurricane on September 21, becoming the third (now fourth) most intense hurricane ever recorded in the Atlantic Basin.
Rita made landfall near the Texas-Louisiana border on September 24.
Major flooding was reported in Port Arthur and Beaumont, Texas, while Cameron and Calcasieu Parishes in Louisiana were devastated.
Offshore oil platforms throughout Rita's path also suffered significant damage.
Six people are confirmed dead from Rita's direct effects, and total damage from the storm is estimated at about $10 billion (2005 USD; $  USD).
One hundred and thirteen indirect deaths have been reported, mostly from the exodus from Houston, Texas and surrounding counties.

State Senator Sharon Erickson Ropes stated after initial flooding, "This is the worst disaster that's hit southeast Minnesota in a lifetime."
Four thousand two hundred homes were damaged or destroyed in the state, and seven deaths were reported.
It is estimated that there has been $67 million in damage.
Dodge, Fillmore, Houston, Olmsted, Steele, Wabasha, and Winona counties were declared federal disaster areas.

Southeast Minnesota and southwestern Wisconsin are in the Driftless Area, which was not covered by the last glaciation, and therefore is not covered by deep layers of glacial till.
The soils therefore are thin and less able to retain water; they lie atop porous rock into and through which surface waters can rapidly drain into the water table.
The highly dissected topography, characterized by steep hills and bluffs and deep coulees, gives steep gradients to the drainage and makes streams highly erosive.
As the rains far exceeded the absorption rate  of 1.5 inches (3.8 cm) in six hours, flash floods rapidly overflowed the water courses and spread across the valley floors.
The towns of Stockton, Houston, Elba, Minnesota City, and portions of Winona, on the Mississippi River, were evacuated.
Citizens were moved to Saint Mary's University in Winona, Lewiston, and Caledonia, Minnesota.
Massive bluffs gave way in Brownsville and several homes were completely washed away.
Governor Tim Pawlenty ordered 240 National Guard soldiers to help and declared a state of emergency in six counties.
The Minnesota Army National Guard soldiers guarded communities that were cleared out after the flooding early August 19.
The Army Corps of Engineers opened up the floodgates on the rising Root River to release some of the water creating pressure on the dike in Houston.

As Ike crossed Cuba on September 8 it weakened to a Category 1 hurricane and emerged into the Caribbean Sea, where it moved along or just off of the southern coast of Cuba.
Ike killed 7 people as it traversed nearly the entirety of Cuba.
It crossed into the Gulf of Mexico on September 9 and ballooned in size.
Ike maintained a double eyewall structure across most of the Gulf of Mexico and continued to expand in size.
It made landfall on Galveston Island on September 13 as a strong Category 2 hurricane, but its large size brought storm surge of over  from Galveston Island eastward into southern Louisiana.
The Bolivar Peninsula was worst affected by the surge, while Galveston Island (where waves topped the seawall) and the Port Arthur areas also saw extensive damage.
Power was knocked out to most of the Houston area and windows were blown out of skyscrapers in downtown Houston.
As Ike moved inland, it brought extensive flooding and wind damage throughout the Midwest and as far north as Pennsylvania.
It became extratropical on September 14.

Both the Astros and the Cubs were also involved in a rare "rain-in" due to Hurricane Ike postponing the first two games of their three-game series on September 12 and 13; the city of Houston had been evacuated so they were not able to play at the retractable-roof Minute Maid Park.
The last rain-in was on June 15, 1976 when the Astros' game at the Astrodome against the Pittsburgh Pirates was called due to heavy flooding in the Houston area.
Two of the games were played at Miller Park in Milwaukee on September 14 and 15th, the remaining game was canceled outright, one of three games that would be outright canceled, the first being the Oakland Athletics scheduled to play the Orioles on September 7; however, the game was switched due to a conflict with the Baltimore Ravens' NFL season opener against the Cincinnati Bengals.
This game was moved to September 6 as part of a day/night doubleheader.
However, the remnants of Hurricane Hanna called off the afternoon game, and because both teams were not in the pennant races, the game was not made up, in spite of the fact that both teams still had two common off days.

With the landfall of Hurricane Gustav on the U.S. Gulf Coast, the White House canceled the planned appearances of President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney.
Governors Bobby Jindal of Louisiana and Rick Perry of Texas skipped the convention to remain in their states during the hurricane's landfall.
The Monday, September 1, 2008, schedule was compressed to two hours from seven.
McCain called on the party to reduce partisan activities ahead of the hurricane's arrival.
The Republican Party chartered a DC-9 to fly convention delegates representing the affected areas back home to their families.
The last time a major hurricane struck in a Presidential-election year was Hurricane Andrew in 1992, which hit South Florida four days after the Republican Convention in Houston, Texas.

The 1943 Surprise Hurricane, which struck Houston, Texas during World War II, marked the first intentional meteorological flight into a hurricane.
That summer, British pilots being trained as instrument instructor pilots at Bryan Field heard that the school was evacuating its AT-6 Texan trainers in the face of the oncoming hurricane, and began teasing their instructors about the airworthiness of the aircraft.
School commander USAAF Col.
Joseph B. Duckworth bet his RAF students that he could safely fly into the storm and return.
He took out one of the trainers with 2nd Lt. Ralph M. O'Hair navigating and flew it straight into the eye of the storm.
After he returned safely, the base's only weather officer, 1st Lt. William H. Jones-Burdick, took over the navigator's seat and Col. Duckworth flew into the storm (now over land) a second time, this time recording their observations and measuring temperatures within the storm.
The flights demonstrated that hurricane reconnaissance flights were feasible, and further flights continued on an irregular basis.

Schwartz became a lobbyist and legislative consultant on local, state and national issues.
He has appeared in the PBS documentary "Vote For Me: Politics in America" (1996) and "Bush's Brain" (2006).
Between 1996 and 2005, he taught Legislation and Coastal Zone Management Law at the University of Houston Law Center as an adjunct professor.
In 2009, he began teaching Coastal and Ocean Law at the University of Texas School of Law.
In September 2008, he was quoted in The New York Times on the subject of damage to Galveston from Hurricane Ike and other hurricanes over the years.
The 1900 Galveston hurricane that devastated Galveston, he said, was a “message from God.”
He explained: “God’s message was, ‘man wasn’t meant to live on no damned island.’”
In an Associated Press story after Hurricane Ike about the fact that the 1959 Texas Open Beaches Act, a state law protecting public access to beaches might cause some Galveston-area homes to be seized by the state, Schwartz said, ""We're talking about damn fools that have built houses on the edge of the sea for as long as man could remember and against every advice anyone has given."
That story, in turn, led to an attack on Schwartz by radio commentator Rush Limbaugh, who said, "You know, folks, it’s one thing to be smacked by a natural disaster; it’s quite another to have to be smacked around by the government that you’re looking to for help."
His oral history for the Texas Legacy Project is featured on the project's site  and in a 2010 book published from those interviews.

"Wednesday, August 31".
Hamid and Mansell wake up from a long night on the roof of Hamid's maintenance shed.
They spend the day wading through the chest-high waters, refusing a boat ride out of the flooded sections of the city.
Denise and her family, having momentarily escaped the flooding, await transport out of the flooded city.
What they find instead is a van to the Convention Center.
In Houston, Leo and Michelle are dismayed to discover that their neighborhood took over five feet of water.
The Doctor makes the rounds of the French Quarter, administering aid where needed.
Hamid and Mansell deliver much-needed water to a trapped neighbor.
And in Tallahassee, Kevin sees footage of the flooding and realizes he won’t be returning home any time soon.
Denise arrive at the Convention Center to find it completely without vital services, and filled with abandoned people.
Mansell narrowly avoids being crushed by a bobbing refrigerator case.
Mansell's asthma and the high water makes Hamid face the fact that they probably should evacuate the flooded city.
In Houston, Leo & Michelle discuss what their next move should be.
And in Tallahassee, Kevin learns that he and his younger brother will be sent off to California to attend school there.

"Monday, August 29".
As the storm’s pre-winds batter New Orleans, The Doctor’s hurricane party is in full swing.
Hamid and Mansell hunker down at the store.
When the full force of the hurricane hits, Denise learns just what a mistake it was to forsake the refuge of the hospital for her apartment.
Her apartment is shaken repeatedly by the storm, the ceiling in the bedroom comes down, and she spends the night holding onto a bed wedged in the hallway.
We also check in on Kevin and his family in Tallahassee, and Leo and Michelle in Houston.
No one is yet aware that the levees have been breached.

Going back in time to more than a week before the storm, readers meet the protagonists in their pre-Katrina lives.
Then in the days leading up to the hurricane, the characters learn about the approaching monster storm.
On the Saturday before the hurricane, Leo tracks the storm on his computer as he and Michelle decide whether to evacuate.
Meanwhile, The Doctor makes plans to host some friends at his French Quarter home for a “hurricane party.”
On Sunday, August 28, 2005, one day before Katrina, Hamid sends his wife and family off to safety in Houston.
Kevin helps his family prepare to evacuate to Tallahassee.
Denise goes with her niece and grandniece to take shelter at the hospital where her mother works, but when they are turned away from a private room due to overcrowding, she angrily returns to her apartment alone.
Leo and Michelle spend hours in bumper-to-bumper traffic to Houston, while Kevin and his family do the same en route to Tallahassee.
Meanwhile, Hamid and Mansell excitedly outfit themselves for the storm at Hamid’s store.

In 2005, Alief became home to many Hurricane Katrina evacuees.
More than 3,000 evacuees enrolled in Alief ISD schools.
Alief ISD spent $12 million to accommodate Hurricane Katrina evacuees in 2005.
The United States government promised to reimburse the district, but in 2006 Alief had not yet received the money.
Many of the students who were displaced by the hurricane were academically behind their Texas peers.
In 2006, former United States President George H. W. Bush and Houston Mayor Bill White led a fundraising campaign to help Alief ISD and other districts pay for educating the displaced students.
The influx of evacuees caused an escalation of gang violence.
Murders in Houston increased by 29% in 2005.

The AIU Houston building was severely damaged by Hurricane Ike in September 2008.
It was remodeled, and a grand re-opening celebration occurred in February 2009.

Auchan's second Greater Houston location opened in southeast Houston in September 2000.
In January 2003 Auchan announced that both of its U.S. stores were making losses and were going to be closed; Auchan stated that it was instead going to concentrate its expansion in Asia and Europe.
Auchan U.S.A. sold its first Houston location to Ho Enterprises.
Lewis Food Town occupied about  of the space, with the rest of the space taken by other tenants.
The second remains unoccupied, but was used as a shelter for Hurricane Katrina victims in 2005 and Hurricane Ike victims in 2008 due to its large space.

While visiting a Houston relief center for people displaced by Hurricane Katrina, Bush told the radio program "Marketplace", Almost everyone I've talked to says, 'We're gonna move to Houston.' What I'm hearing, which is sort of scary, is they all want to stay in Texas... Everybody is so overwhelmed by the hospitality, and so many of the people in the arenas here, you know, were underprivileged anyway, so this (as she chuckles slightly) is working very well for them.

In 1961, Hurricane Carla devastated the Texas Gulf Coast, flooding Brownwood and ending any new development in the area.
Afterwards, subsidence became a serious problem as industrial and municipal water users along the Houston Ship Channel and in the general Houston area pumped out groundwater faster than natural forces could replenish the aquifer(s).
Thus, during the 1970s and 1980s, much of the Texan Gulf Coast (including Brownwood) sank a total of 10 to .
Brownwood, which had previously been high and dry, was repeatedly inundated by high tides and storms.

Summer temperatures typically have highs near  though higher temperatures are not uncommon.
The city's proximity to the bay and the winds that it generates moderate the area's temperatures and ease the effects of the humidity creating a more pleasant climate than inland communities like Houston.
Winters in the area are temperate with typical January high of  and lows are near .
Snowfall is rare.
Annual rainfall averages exceed .

Hurricanes are a substantial concern during the fall season.
Though Galveston Island and the Bolivar Peninsula provide some shielding, Baytown still faces more danger than Houston and other inland communities, particularly because of storm surge as well as severe land subsidence in some low-lying areas of town due to excess pumping of groundwater in the 1960s (see Brownwood subdivision)  by area refineries and municipalities.

In August 2005, Hurricane Katrina made landfall on the Louisiana coast and devastated the city of New Orleans.
As a result, the company temporarily located to Houston, Texas where it successfully recovered from the loss due to the hurricane.
Following hurricane Katrina, Bennett & Associates formally moved their headquarters to Houston, Texas while still retaining the original office in New Orleans.

Bill served in the U.S. Navy, where he served as an on-board meteorologist with the Hurricane Hunters.
He began his weather service career in 1977 with the National Weather Service test and evaluation division in Sterling, Virginia.
He served as a forecaster in the Fort Worth and San Antonio, Texas offices before becoming the severe thunderstorm and flash flood program leader at the National Weather Service headquarters in Silver Spring, Maryland.
Read was appointed to direct the Houston/Galveston weather forecast office in 1992 and led it through the National Weather Service modernization and restructuring program of the mid 1990s.
He was also part of the Hurricane Liaison Team at the National Hurricane Center in Miami when Hurricane Isabel came ashore on the Outer Banks of North Carolina in September 2003.
Bill Read is now the director of its Tropical Prediction Center, which includes the National Hurricane Center and two other divisions, in Miami, Florida.
Read previously served as the center’s acting deputy director between August 2007 and January 2008.

Just weeks after Hurricane Katrina, it looked as though Houston would become the target of Hurricane Rita.
Bill White mobilized the citizens of Houston to evacuate.
During a series of press conferences, Mayor White and County Judge Robert Eckels instructed Houstonians on when to evacuate.
Officials employed a strategy that called for the evacuation of flood prone areas first.
This evacuation, however, led to many problems as it caused multi-hour backups on all freeways in Houston.
This prompted White to later lead an evacuation plan reform for Houston.

In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, thousands of residents of New Orleans were displaced.
Bill White offered refuge for the victims in the Astrodome, the George R. Brown Convention Center, and a large building formerly housing an Auchan location.
He also helped set up programs to help them find long-term housing, job placement, and education within Houston.
He was later awarded the John F. Kennedy Profile in Courage Award for his service in the light of this catastrophe.

The environment in southeast Texas is quite different from the environment of East Tennessee.
East Tennessee's mean annual temperature is 67 °F (19 °C).
The Houston area's mean annual temperature is 75 °F (23 °C).
Temperature, along with many other factors, affect the decomposition process, and therefore difference in temperature will produce different decomposition results.

Due to the rapid growth of the Greater Houston area (which includes Galveston County), the commute time required to board the ferry has rapidly increased (during the summer the wait can be up to two hours), which slows emergency response times (there are few emergency services, and no hospitals, on the peninsula, thus requiring trips to Galveston).
Maintenance costs for the ferry crossing have risen to approximately $12 million per year, a 200 percent increase in the last eight years alone.
The ferry is unusable in the event a tropical storm or hurricane approaches the area, thus forcing evacuating traffic onto the other two egresses from the island (Interstate 45 and a two-lane toll bridge on the west end of the island), and projected ship traffic in Galveston Bay (including the Houston Ship Channel) is expected to increase dramatically in the coming years.

The  Buffalo Bayou watershed is central to the drainage of Houston and Harris County.
Lying over relatively impervious soils and very flat topography, the bayou has extensive natural floodplains, as do most Gulf coastal rivers and streams.
The gradual urbanization of the watershed, starting with the founding of the city in 1836 and accelerating in the latter half of the twentieth century, placed thousands of people in the natural floodplains.
At the same time, changes to the watershed due to urbanization increased the level and intensity of flood events.

In 2009, Chevron announced an oil discovery at the Buckskin prospect in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico about 190 miles southeast of Houston.
The well is located in approximately 6,920 feet of water and was drilled to a depth of 29,404 feet.
In 2011, the company announced an oil discovery at the Moccasin prospect in the deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico.
The well is located approximately 216 miles off the Louisiana coast in 6,759 feet of water and was drilled to a depth of 31,545 feet.
In addition to its deepwater Gulf of Mexico activities, Chevron is one of the largest producers of oil and natural gas on the Gulf of Mexico shelf.

In 1984 Gulf Coast Bible College announced it was leaving Houston and moving to Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
Odus Eubank, the vice president for academic affairs, told the president of Gulf Coast in September 1984 that he was not going to Oklahoma.
In the northern hemisphere spring of the following year, Eubank resigned.
The school opened in June 1985 for a summer session.
Its full autumn session began in September of that year.
It anticipated having about 100 students.
Eubank said that most of the students at Christian College will be new students and not existing Gulf Coast students.

There were many predictions of hurricane risk in New Orleans before Hurricane Katrina in August, 2005.
In 2001, the "Houston Chronicle" published a story which predicted that a severe hurricane striking New Orleans, "would strand 250,000 people or more, and probably kill one of 10 left behind as the city drowned under  of water.
Thousands of refugees could land in Houston."
Many concerns also focused around the fact that the city's levee system was only designed for hurricanes of no greater intensity than category 3.
As it turned out, Katrina was Category 3 when it made landfall and most of New Orleans experienced Category 1 or 2 strength winds.
However, due to the slow moving nature of the storm in its pass over New Orleans, several floodwalls lining the shipping and drainage canals in New Orleans collapsed and the resulting flood water from Lake Ponchartrain inundated the city within the two days following the storm, causing costly damage to buildings and resulting in many deaths.

Beaumonters dealt with Tropical Storm Allison in 2001.
Beaumont and the vicinity did not experience the damage and destruction that Houston got, as only  to  of rain fell near Beaumont.
Homes are still abandoned due to massive flooding that took place.

Snow is almost unheard of in Houston.
When it does occur, it almost invariably melts immediately on the ground with light accumulation on roofs and raised surfaces.
Since 1895, it has only snowed thirty five times in Houston, about twice every seven years on average.
Such an average is misleading, however, since snow generally only falls once every 10 years.
In recent years, snowfall has become much more frequent than normal and multiple snowfall records have been broken.

Due to its very mild winters, Houston has almost no ice, snow or freezes.
There are usually a few days of freezing (<32F) temperatures each year.
Ice, when it occurs on roads, is cause to shut the entire city down.

Unlike Dallas, Houston is not in Tornado Alley.
Smaller tornadoes can occur during severe weather.
They are most likely to be found along frontal boundaries of an air mass during the spring months.
Tornadoes in Houston usually measure a weak F1 on the old Fujita scale, and cause light to moderate damage to well-constructed buildings.
The strongest recorded tornado in Houston history was an F4 on November 21, 1992, part of a large outbreak of tornadoes.

Flooding is a recurring problem in Houston.
It is especially severe in low-lying areas on the far east end of town along the San Jacinto river.
The flat wetlands and paved-over coastal prairie around Houston drains slowly and easily floods.
The area is drained by a network of bayous (small, slow-moving rivers; often dredged and enlarged to increase volume) and man-made drainage ditches (usually dry most of the year).
Due to the ubiquity of overdevelopment and the huge amounts of concrete, drainage is insufficient during times of especially heavy rainfall.
In fall, cool fronts bring in rainstorms and flooding is not uncommon.
This might flood certain low-lying intersections, but doesn't generally affect citizens or the business of the city.
However, occasionally very heavy thunderstorms dump so much water on the city that widespread congestion and even property damage in low-lying areas results.
Tropical Storm Allison in 2001 was the most recent bad flooding incident, and it was so severe that many parts of town that had never flooded before were flooded seriously.
Interstate 10 near downtown, which is below grade, was covered by over 10 feet of water.

Hurricane Ike made landfall near Galveston, Texas in September 2008.
Although only a category 2 storm (out of 5), Ike brought moderate rain but high winds for an unusually long duration (upwards of nine hours).
The roof of Reliant Stadium (home of the Houston Texans NFL team) was damaged and windows were blown out of several highrise buildings in downtown Houston.
Storm surge affected areas around Galveston Bay, stripping some coastal islands of homes.
Galveston Island was devastated, looking much like a war zone.
Non-emergency access to the island was prohited for many weeks.
Hurricane Ike left ninety percent of people in the Houston Area without power.
Never before had the city experienced such widespread or long-term power outage: no air conditioning, no refrigeration, no lights, no phones.
Day-to-day business slowed immensely.
Area grocery stores were stripped bare and sold water and ice for cash by flashlight.
Trucks from around the country brought in emergency supplies, especially water and ice.
Most of the city was without power for a week—some for 2 to 3 weeks.

Tropical Storm Erin made landfall in August 2007 with strong rains.
A total of  of rain fell at George Bush Intercontinental Airport on August 16 and many roads and neighborhoods were flooded.
METRO halted its light rail and bus services in view of the effects.
Four deaths in the city were attributed to the storm.
The Houston Fire Department reported 72 rescue operations.

The most destructive and costly natural disaster in Houston history was Tropical Storm Allison of 2001, which dumped up to  of rain on parts of the city over a 5-day period.
Area flooding was catastrophic and widespread.
The storm completely overwhelmed the flood control system and caused 22 deaths in Houston and $6.05 billion (2006 USD) in damage.
It is the only tropical storm in history to have its name retired.

In 1837 the Racer's Storm passed just to the south of the town, raising water levels four feet.
The Great Hurricane of 1900 destroyed the nearby (and then much bigger) city of Galveston, which is situated on a barrier island 50 miles southeast of downtown Houston.
That hurricane weakened to a tropical storm by the time it reached Houston.
The periphery of Hurricane Carla hit the city in 1961, causing major damage to Houston.
At the time of landfall, Carla was the most powerful tropical system to hit the Texas coast in over 40 years,.
In 1983, the city was struck squarely by Hurricane Alicia, causing one billion dollars damage to the city during a down period in the city's economy.

Because Houston is on the Gulf of Mexico, the city has a small chance of being hit by hurricanes or tropical storms every hurricane season (June through November).

Houston has occasional severe weather, mostly flooding.
Hurricanes that have the potential to landfall bring severe damage to the area.
There have been approximately 7 major hurricanes to hit the Galveston and Houston areas in the past 100 years.
Four have done significant damage to Houston.

Rainfall is the most common form of precipitation in Houston.
The wettest month is June, with  of rain.
On average, Houston sees 30-40 days of rain per year.
The city receives  of rain in an average year.
The most precipitation to fall in one year was  which occurred in 1900.
Houston has received less than  of rain only once: 17.66 inches in 1917.
Flash flood warnings are common all year, and due to the flat landscape, heavy rains can be a threat to the city.

Spring comes with a gradual warm up from winter, lasting from March 20 through May.
Temperatures are generally not hot yet, averaging from  in the day and  at night.
Spring thunderstorms are not uncommon, often with spectacular lightning shows.
This rainfall prompts Houston's 10-month long "growing season" to begin.
April sees the return of many types of insects, including butterflies and mosquitoes, to return to Houston's warm climate.

Snow is extremely unusual in Houston.
Light snow has fallen approximately 35 times since 1895, more recently on December 4, 2009 and February 23, 2010.
Freezing rain, also known as ice storms, are slightly less rare.
The most recent ice storms occurred in 1997 and 2007 as well as on February 4, 2011.
These storms can be very disruptive since road crews are not equipped to handle such rare events (and motorists are entirely unfamiliar with ice).
When ice occurs, road and schools are usually closed.

Winters in Houston are very mild and temperate.
While the average high in January, the coldest month, is  and the low , Houston sees an average of 18 days per year of freezing temperatures.
Cold fronts during the winter drop nighttime lows into the 30s, averaging out at 36°F (2.2°C) but usually above freezing.
There usually is a period of about three weeks with what would be considered "winter" weather&mdash;temperatures in the low 30s to mid-40s.
'Hard freezes' are uncommon.
The coldest temperature ever recorded in Houston was  on January 23, 1930.

Autumn in Houston is warm, with temperatures averaging in the upper 60s to lower 80s °F (20-28 °C) during the day and in the 50s to lower 60s °F (10-17 °C) at night.
Cool fronts that move through the region during the fall can bring rain.
Hurricanes can move into the area from the Gulf of Mexico bringing heavy rains and high winds.
However, most years see little or no significant hurricane activity.
Flooding is most frequent in October and November.
Since 1985, the latest a hurricane has impacted Texas was Hurricane Ike [2008].

June through August in Houston is very hot and humid, often with scattered afternoon showers and thunderstorms.
The average daily high temperature peaks at  at the end of July, with an average of 99 days per year above .
The average relative humidity ranges from over 90 percent in the morning to around 60 percent in the afternoon.
The temperatures in the summer in Houston are very similar to average temperatures seen in tropical climates, such as in the Philippines and Central America.
The values of relative humidity results in a heat index higher than the actual temperature.
The hottest temperature ever recorded in Houston was  on September 4, 2000 and tied on August 27, 2011.
Heat stroke can strike people who stay out of doors for long periods of time during the summer so hydration is essential for outdoor work and recreational activity.
Houston's heat and humidity made air-conditioning an essential element in Houston's early survival, and it continues to be important in day-to-day life.
Most workers are relatively unaffected by the heat since they spend the hottest part of the day indoors in air conditioning.
Air conditioning is considered the stimulus for the growth of Houston in 1950 when it became the most air-conditioned city in the world.

The "Climate of Houston" is classified as humid subtropical.
Houston's warmest month (on average) is July at , and the coldest month being January at .
The average yearly precipitation level is .
Houston has occasional severe weather, mostly in the form of flooding.
Spring supercell thunderstorms sometimes bring tornadoes to the area.
Houston sometimes experiences tropical cyclones during the hurricane season, which can bring significant damage to the city.
The last to hit was Hurricane Ike in 2008.

Air Station Houston plays a major role in the aftermath of Tropical Storm Allison in June.
With over 80 hoists throughout the 24-hour period, the Air Station was a major factor in the lives of many Houstonians.
The flooding occurred four days after the initial storm.
Four days prior, during the throws of the storm, an Air Station Houston helicopter flew into the storm through 65+ knot winds to perform a medevac.

October Remnants of Hurricane Rosa dump more than 25 inches of rain on the Houston area from 18–31 October causing widespread flooding along the San Jacinto River.
Air Station Houston responded by evacuating over 450 people from the flooded region.
Oil and gas pipelines, which crossed the river, gave way, creating a massive oil/gas spill, which exploded and burned for five days.
The units provided critical support to the Marine Safety Office’s response and clean up operations associated with this disaster.

March The "storm of the Century" hits the Gulf Coast on 12–13 March.
Air Station Houston responded by saving 6 lives and 2 vessels and assisting others over an 18-hour period as heavy storms spawned life-threatening seas and skies.

Hurricane Ike ravaged Eastern Texas on September 17.
Prior to Ike making landfall, a massive storm surge flooded Bolivar Peninsula trapping 200+residents.
Coast Guard Air Station Houston dispatched all three helicopters, two of which had already been prepositioned to Corpus Christi, to respond.
In all,59 lives were saved by Air Station flight crews before the winds became too severe to continue.
In the weeks following the storm, Air Station Houston provided more than 115 flight-hours in support of post-storm recovery operations and media/VIP over-flights.

In August, Hurricane Alicia devastates the Houston/Galveston area.
AIRSTA weathered the storm with two helos battened down in the hangar (a third was deployed on CGC Valiant) and half the crew remaining on board.
Post storm flights assisting stranded residents, delivering food, water and medical supplies, and surveying aid-to-navigation damage, total 52 hours.
Damage to AIRSTA has significant impact on relocation studies.
AIRSTA helos have rendered assistance following violent storms and hurricanes more than nine times since 1963, including Gulfport, MI (1969); Brownsville, TX (1978); and Corpus Christi (1980).

The first “linefill” of Colonial began the morning of Sept. 16, 1963 in Houston but was shut down that same afternoon for two days later when Hurricane Cindy struck the Gulf Coast.

Shortly after Hurricane Ike hit the Houston, Texas area in 2008, customers received bills and later collection notices for unreturned equipment that was destroyed during the storm.
One customer reported a $931 bill which included a $66 credit for interrupted phone service, but also included $1000 charge for not returning her rented DVR, Cable Modem, and other equipment.
Comcast responses differed after the storm, with some Customer Care agents telling customers to file with their insurance providers, and other agents advising customers to return their equipment, even if it was ruined or moldy.

The launch weather guidelines involving the Space Shuttle and expendable rockets are similar in many areas, but a distinction is made for the individual characteristics of each.
The criteria are broadly conservative and assure avoidance of possibly adverse conditions.
They are reviewed for each launch.
For the Space Shuttle, weather "outlooks" provided by the U. S. Air Force Range Weather Operations Facility at Cape Canaveral begin at Launch minus 5 days in coordination with the NOAA National Weather Service Spaceflight Meteorology Group at the Johnson Space Center in Houston.
These include weather trends and their possible effects on launch day.
A formal prelaunch weather briefing is held on Launch minus 1 day, which is a specific weather briefing for all areas of Space Shuttle launch operations.

Barbara Bush, wife of former president George H.W. Bush and mother of George W. Bush, generated criticism after comments on hurricane evacuees and a donation.
While visiting a Houston relief center for people displaced by Hurricane Katrina, Bush told the radio program "Marketplace",

The "1995 Colima-Jalisco earthquake" was a 8.0 Mw earthquake which occurred on October 9, 1995 at 15:36 UTC, off the coast of Jalisco, Mexico, with least 49 people dead and 100 more injured.
The earthquake triggered a tsunami, which affected a 200 km coast.
The Cihuatlan-Manzanillo area, Colima, was more severely affected than other areas.
The earthquake was felt in Mexico City and in high-rise buildings in Dallas and Houston.

Climate is the unifying factor in the region's geography&mdash;all of east Texas has the humid subtropical climate typical of the Southeast, occasionally interrupted by intrusions of cold air from the north.
East Texas receives more rainfall, , than the rest of Texas.
In Houston the average January temperature is  and the average July temperature is , however Houston has slightly warmer winters than most of East Texas due to its proximity to the coast.

Power outages in the wake of Katrina have also caused distribution problems for oil and natural gas.
Pipelines which move petroleum products from places like Houston to areas of the east coast have had their flows interrupted because power outages shut down the pumps that kept materials flowing.
Dick Cheney personally called the manager of the Southern Pines Electric Power Association on the night of August 30 and again the next morning and ordered him to divert power crews to substations in nearby Collins that were essential to the operation of the Colonial Pipeline, which carries gasoline and diesel fuel from Texas to the Northeast.

On August 30, the university reported that "physical damage to the area, including Tulane's campuses, was extensive" and conditions in the city were continuing to deteriorate.
Power was out, water levels were rising, all city roads were blocked, and most of the Tulane workforce had evacuated.
(Ultimately, the damage was less than what was at first suspected.
The water levels stopped at sea level, resulting in standing water ranging from several inches to several feet on the half of the campus sitting north of Freret Street, but no flooding on the other half, which contains the historic academic quad and buildings that extend to Gibson Hall on St. Charles Avenue.)
By September 1, only a core group of public safety and facilities personnel remained on campus.
Tulane president Scott Cowen and an "emergency team" relocated to Houston, Texas to coordinate planning for recovery.
Tulane reported that security was being maintained on campus and that students' belongings were safe in the unflooded areas of the dormitories.
On September 2, President Cowen announced that the University would cancel classes for the fall semester.

National Guardsmen accompanied by buses (475 total) and supply trucks arrived at the Superdome on September 1.
The buses were sent to pick up the evacuees from the Superdome and the Ernest N. Morial Convention Center, where more than 20,000 people had been crowded in similarly poor living conditions.
13,000 evacuees were taken to the Reliant Astrodome in Houston.
By September 4, the last large group from the Superdome had been evacuated.
The 2008 memoir, Diary From the Dome, Reflections describes the personal ordeal of a tourist who was stuck in the Superdome during Katrina and the levee failures.

When the flooding began on August 30, the Superdome began to slowly fill with water, though it remained confined to the field level.
Later that day, Governor Blanco ordered New Orleans completely evacuated.
On August 31, it was announced that the Superdome evacuees would move to the Reliant Astrodome in Houston, Texas.
With no power and no water, sanitary conditions within the Superdome had rapidly deteriorated.
As of August 31, there had been three deaths in the Superdome: two elderly medical patients and a man who is believed to have committed suicide by jumping from the upper level seats.
There were also unconfirmed reports of rape, vandalism, violent assaults, crack dealing/drug abuse, and gang activity inside the Superdome.
On September 11, New Orleans Police Superintendent Eddie Compass reported there were "no confirmed reports of any type of sexual assault."

On September 8, Texas State Governor Rick Perry declared 88 Texas state counties a disaster area in preparation for Hurricane Ike, expected to hit the Texas coast as early as Saturday morning, which included placing 7,500 Texas Military Forces troops on standby.
The Texas County of Brazoria called for voluntary evacuation and Matagorda County called for mandatory evacuation as did the County of Brazoria for zip code 77541 and the city of Lake Jackson.
Galveston, parts of southern Houston and areas south of the city and near the Texas coast were under a mandatory evacuation order starting at noon September 11.
On September 10, U.S. President George W. Bush made an emergency declaration for Texas in advance of Hurricane Ike, making more federal help available for preparations and evacuations.

The storm had come ashore hours before daybreak with 110-mph (175 km/h) winds and towering waves, pushing boats ashore, smashing many houses, flooding thousands of homes, knocking out windows in Houston's skyscrapers, uprooting trees, and cutting electric power to more than millions of customers (estimates range from 2.8 million to 4.5 million  customers) for weeks or months.

Kemah, Texas, about 35 miles (56 km) south of Houston, was without power and water, and still had 5 feet of flooding on Saturday, 13 September 2008.
State Highway 146 was closed at the 2094 intersection.
There was a lot of debris on the roads, completely covering some lanes.
Severe damage occurred at the Kemah Boardwalk, the site of many popular restaurants and shops, as well as a small waterfront amusement park with various rides, including a carousel, kiddie train and Ferris wheel overlooking Galveston Bay.
The entire first floor of Landry's seafood restaurant was demolished and swept away, as well as those of neighboring structures.
The Boardwalk had received 4 million visitors per year.
In an interview on local CBS affiliate KHOU-TV, the Boardwalk manager expressed confidence that despite such unprecedented devastation to the tourist attraction, the site would be rebuilt.

A Valero Energy Corp. spokesman, Bill Day, said that crews would soon get in to inspect the oil refineries in Houston and Texas City, which remained shut down on Saturday, 13 September 2008.
Texas City (north of Galveston) was very near to the landfall site of Hurricane Ike.
The Mainland Medical Center (off I-45) closed its doors on Saturday (13Sep08) at 4 p.m. CDT, after water service was unavailable in the area.
One death has been reported in Texas City, which was caused by a lack of dialysis treatment due to the storm's aftermath.

Afterward, an estimated 100,000 homes had been flooded in Texas, and numerous boats washed ashore.
Galveston was declared uninhabitable, and Houston imposed a week-long nighttime curfew due to limited electric power.

In Houston, windows also broke in downtown buildings such as the 75-story JPMorgan Chase Tower, and Reliant Stadium was damaged.
According to a witness interviewed by FoxNews, furniture from offices in the JPMorgan Chase building was blown out of the shattered windows and into the parking garage across the street.
A fire partially burned Brennan's restaurant in downtown Houston, but workers were rescued.
Many trees were uprooted, and bus stop shelters were mangled.
Houston's theater district was flooded.

Also on September 11, at 8:19 p.m. (CDT), the National Weather Service in Houston/Galveston, TX issued a strongly worded bulletin, regarding storm surge along the shoreline of Galveston Bay.
The bulletin advised residents living in single-family homes in some parts of coastal Texas may face "certain death" if they do not heed orders to evacuate.
Reports said as many as 40 percent of Galveston's citizens may have not paid attention to the warnings.
It was feared to be much the same in Port Arthur.

On September 11, forecasting models began to show Ike making landfall just south of Galveston.
City Manager Steve LeBlanc late Wednesday issued a mandatory evacuation order for the low lying west end of Galveston Island.
Later, the mandatory evacuation order was extended to the entire island of Galveston, as well as low-lying areas around Houston, Texas.

