0 new+york Before the September 11, 2001 attacks, there were eight letter carriers assigned to the buildings to deliver mail to the buildings' tenants. Before the    attacks there were  letter carriers assigned to the buildings to deliver mail to the buildings' tenants.
1 new+york All of the Postal Service employees survived the attacks. All of the   employees survived the attacks.
2 new+york In the months following the September 11, 2001 attacks, over 80,000 pieces of mail continued to arrive each day addressed to the World Trade Center, including some items loosely addressed to such recipients as "The Search Dogs" or "The Rescuers". In   following     attacks over 80000 pieces of mail continued to arrive each day addressed to     including some items loosely addressed to such recipients as "The Search Dogs" or "The Rescuers".
3 new+york As of 2003, 3,600 items of mail per day were still being sent to 10048. As of ,  items of mail per  were still being sent to .
4 new+york These items were processed at the James A. Farley General Post Office, the main facility for New York City, located across from Penn Station in Midtown Manhattan. These items were processed at the      , the main facility for   , located across from   in  .
5 new+york Mail there was held for pick-up by messenger, forwarded to the intended recipient, returned to its sender, or destroyed. Mail there was held for pick-up by messenger, forwarded to the intended recipient, returned to its sender, or destroyed.
6 new+york Following the attacks, the United States Postal Service provided free mail-forwarding service to the WTC's former occupants for three years, rather than the usual one-year period. Following the attacks, the     provided free mail-forwarding service to the WTC's former occupants for  , rather than the usual  period.
7 new+york By the end of 2006, the number of items sent to 10048 had decreased to around 300 items daily, mostly sent from businesses and organizations that had not yet updated their bulk mailing lists. By    ,  number  items sent to  had decreased to around  items daily, mostly sent from businesses and organizations that had not yet updated ir bulk mailing lists.
8 new+york The renovation of 1049 5th Avenue was undertaken during a dismal economic climate for luxury real estate. The renovation of   Avenue was undertaken during a dismal economic climate for luxury real estate.
9 new+york The same economic circumstances that overtook Gerald Guterman had not yet subsided, and many top real estate development companies were failing. The same economic circumstances that overtook   had not yet subsided, and many top real estate development companies were failing.
10 new+york One of the prestige luxury addresses in Manhattan, Trump Palace, was struggling, and several recently constructed residential high-rises sat empty. of the prestige luxury addresses in ,  , was struggling, and several  constructed residential high-rises sat empty.
11 new+york Prices for New York condominiums had fallen at least 25 percent since 1989, and plummeted a whopping 4.6 percent just in the second quarter of 1991. Prices for   condominiums had fallen at least 25 percent since , and plummeted a whopping 4.6 percent just in     .
12 new+york Worse, the malaise extended well beyond New York. Worse, the malaise extended well beyond  .
13 new+york The world was in the midst of a severe economic downturn, the recession of 1991. The world was in the midst of a severe economic downturn, the recession of .
14 new+york After the fall of Port Hudson it engaged Confederate forces at Cox's plantation, while under command of Maj. After the  of   it engaged Confederate forces at 's plantation, while under command of Maj.
15 new+york George Keating. .
16 new+york In the end, the unit lost 54 soldiers, 18 killed, 29 wounded and 7 missing. In the end, the unit lost  soldiers,  killed,  wounded and  missing.
17 new+york This was the heaviest loss sustained by any regiment in the action. This was the heaviest loss sustained by any regiment in the action.
18 new+york The remainder of the year was spent by the regiment in post and garrison duty at Baton Rouge, and on 8 February 1864, the regiment was consolidated with the 162nd New York Infantry. The remainder of   was spent by  regiment in post and garrison duty at  , and on   164,  regiment was consolidated with  162nd   .
19 new+york During its independent existence, the unit suffered one officer and 22 enlisted men killed and mortally wounded, and one officer and 59 enlisted men killed from disease and other causes, bringing the total number of casualties suffered to 83. During its independent existence, the unit suffered  officer and  enlisted men killed and mortally wounded, and  officer and  enlisted men killed from disease and other causes, bringing the total number of casualties suffered to .
20 new+york The "1783 New Jersey earthquake" occurred on November 30, 1783 in the U.S. state of New Jersey. The "   earthquake" occurred on    in the  state of  .
21 new+york Measuring 5.3 on the Richter scale, it stands as the most powerful earthquake to occur in the state. Measuring  on the  scale, it stands as the most powerful earthquake to occur in the state.
22 new+york Shaking was felt from New Hampshire to Pennsylvania. Shaking was felt from   to .
23 new+york A brief foreshock occurred at 02:00 UTC on November 30 and an aftershock five hours later were reported only in New York and in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. A brief foreshock occurred at 02:00 UTC on   and an aftershock    were reported only in   and in , .
24 new+york The earthquake caused intensity VII damage on the Mercalli scale. The earthquake caused intensity VII damage on the Mercalli scale.
25 new+york IV. .
26 new+york A tropical storm affected Virginia on September 18 before moving northeast into New York. A tropical storm affected  on    moving northeast into  .
27 new+york The tropical storm caused heavy flooding in the James River area. The tropical storm caused heavy flooding in the   area.
28 new+york IV. .
29 new+york A major hurricane was located off the coast of Virginia moving northward. A major hurricane was located off the coast of  moving northward.
30 new+york It hit Long Island, New York on September 23, causing damage and destruction throughout New England. It hit  ,   on  , causing damage and destruction throughout  .
31 new+york At least 20 deaths occurred, though "The loss of life was so heavy that the newspapers did not have space enough to give all the details of the marine disasters." At least  deaths occurred, though "The loss of life was so heavy that the newspapers did not have space enough to give all the details of the marine disasters."
32 new+york The Norfolk and Long Island Hurricane was a deadly hurricane that rapidly moved up the Atlantic coast during the first few days of September. The  and   Hurricane was a deadly hurricane that rapidly moved up   coast during      .
33 new+york It included a hurricane landfall within the modern borders of New York City, the only recorded case of a hurricane eyewall moving directly over the city. It included a hurricane landfall within the modern borders of   , the only recorded case of a hurricane eyewall moving directly over the city.
34 new+york It caused 200 deaths, and is estimated to have been a Category 4 hurricane. It caused  deaths, and is estimated to have been a Category  hurricane.
35 new+york The first of three recorded tropical cyclones recorded in the 1821 Atlantic hurricane season, it was first observed off the southeast United States coast on September 1, with winds estimated in excess of 135 mph (215 km/h). The  of  recorded tropical cyclones recorded in the   hurricane season, it was  observed off the southeast   coast on  , with winds estimated in excess of 35 mph (25 km/h).
36 new+york It moved ashore near Wilmington, North Carolina, and passed near Norfolk, Virginia before moving through the Delmarva Peninsula and New Jersey just inland. It moved ashore near ,  , and passed near ,  before moving through the   and   just inland.
37 new+york The hurricane struck New York City on September 3, approximately near Jamaica Bay, and on September 4 it was observed over New England. The hurricane struck    on  , approximately near  , and on   it was observed over  .
38 new+york The hurricane occurred just 6 years after the destructive Great September Gale of 1815. The hurricane occurred just   after the destructive Great    .
39 new+york The "1821 Norfolk and Long Island Hurricane" was one of four known tropical cyclones that have made landfall in New York City. The "  and   Hurricane" was  of  known tropical cycls that have made landfall in   .
40 new+york Another, even more intense hurricane struck the region in pre-Columbian times (sometime between 1278 and 1438) and was detected by paleotempestological research. Another, even more intense hurricane struck the region in  times (sometime between   )  was detected by paleotempestological research.
41 new+york The third was the 1893 New York hurricane and the fourth was Hurricane Irene in 2011. The  was the    hurricane and the  was Hurricane Irene in .
42 new+york The hurricane accelerated northeastward, and passed over the Hampton Roads area early on September 3. The hurricane accelerated northeastward, and passed over the   area early on  .
43 new+york After crossing the Chesapeake Bay, the cyclone traversed the Delmarva Peninsula near the Atlantic coastline, and at around 1500 UTC the eye passed directly over Cape Henlopen, Delaware; a thirty minute period of calm was reported. After crossing the  , the cyclone traversed the   near the  coastline, and at around  UTC the eye passed directly over  , ; a   period of calm was reported.
44 new+york It continued across the Delaware Bay and later passed over Cape May, New Jersey, where a fifteen minute calm was reported. It continued across the   and later passed over Cape ,  , where a   calm was reported.
45 new+york Modern researchers estimate it was a Category 3 or Category 4 hurricane upon striking New Jersey, one of the few hurricanes to hit the state. Modern researchers estimate it was a Category  or Category  hurricane upon striking  ,  of the few hurricanes to hit the state.
46 new+york Moving ashore at very low tide, it paralleled the state's coastline just inland, and after exiting into Lower New York Bay the hurricane made landfall on New York City at around 1930 UTC on September 3; this makes it the only major hurricane to directly hit the city. Moving ashore at very low tide, it paralleled the state's coastline just inland, and after exiting into Lower    the hurricane made landfall on    at around  UTC on  ; this makes it the only major hurricane to directly hit the city.
47 new+york A minimal hurricane in 1893 also made landfall on New York City. A minimal hurricane in  also made landfall on   .
48 new+york One modern researcher estimates the hurricane was moving at a forward speed of 35 mph (55 km/h), and upon moving ashore had a pressure of 965 mbar. modern researcher estimates the hurricane was moving at a forward speed of  mph ( km/h), and upon moving ashore had a pressure of  mbar.
49 new+york The hurricane continued northeastward through New England, and after entering Massachusetts on September 4 its exact path was unknown; one researcher estimated the cyclone tracked northeastward until losing its identity over southeastern Maine, while another assessed the storm as passing far to the west of Maine. The hurricane continued northeastward through  , and after entering  on   its exact path was unknown;  researcher estimated the cycl tracked northeastward until losing its identity over southeastern , while another assessed the storm as passing far to the west of .
50 new+york The hurricane produced a storm surge of 13 feet (4 m) in only one hour at Battery Park. The hurricane produced a storm surge of  feet ( m) in only   at Battery Park.
51 new+york Manhattan Island was completely flooded to Canal Street; one hurricane researcher remarked that the storm surge flooding would have been much worse, had the hurricane not struck at low tide. was completely flooded to Canal Street;  hurricane researcher remarked that the storm surge flooding would have been much worse, had the hurricane not struck at low tide.
52 new+york However, few deaths were reported in the city, since the flooding affected neighborhoods much less populated than today. However, few deaths were reported in the city, since the flooding affected neighborhoods much less populated than .
53 new+york The hurricane brought light rainfall as it passed New York City, though strong winds left severe damage across the city. The hurricane brought light rainfall as it passed   , though strong winds left severe damage across the city.
54 new+york High tides occurred along the Hudson River. High tides occurred along the  .
55 new+york Strong waves and winds blew many ships ashore along Long Island. Strong waves and winds blew many ships ashore along  .
56 new+york One ship sank, killing 17 people. ship sank, killing  people.
57 new+york Along Long Island, the winds destroyed several buildings and left crops destroyed. , the winds destroyed several buildings and left crops destroyed.
58 new+york On June 29, 1835 the New York Evening Star reported: "About 5 o'clock yesterday afternoon, a tornado passed over the town of Piscataway, about two miles from New Brunswick, which destroyed every house but two. On    the     reported: "     a tornado passed over the town of  about  miles from   which destroyed every house but .
59 new+york The current proceeded towards the City of New Brunswick, and made dreadful havoc in that place, destroying and injuring nearly one hundred and fifty houses in Liberty, Richmond and Schureman streets. The  proceeded towards the City of  ,  made dreadful havoc in that place, destroying  injuring nearly     houses in Liberty,   Schureman streets.
60 new+york The most melancholy part of the accident is the death of several persons.There were 5 deaths, and here are 4 of them. The most melancholy part of the accident is the death of several persons.There were  deaths, and here are  of them.
61 new+york A widow lady by the name of Van Arsdale, a man called Henry Boorsem, formerly a midshipman in the Navy, who was killed in the street, and a boy named Bayard." A widow lady by the name of  , a man called  , formerly a midshipman in the , who was killed in the street, and a boy named ."
62 new+york During the evening of September 6, a category 3 hurricane with winds of 125 mph (205 km/h) was sighted just north of the Bahamas. During the evening of  , a category  hurricane with winds of  mph ( km/h) was sighted just north of the .
63 new+york The hurricane continued northwestward as it slightly weakened. The hurricane continued northwestward as it slightly weakened.
64 new+york It made landfall just south of the Florida-Georgia border during the afternoon of September 8. It made landfall just south of the  border during the afternoon of  .
65 new+york The hurricane steadily weakened after landfall as it recurved into the frigid waters of the North Atlantic, emerging just south of Chesapeake Bay. The hurricane steadily weakened after landfall as it recurved into the frigid waters of the  , emerging just south of  .
66 new+york After entering the waters of the North Atlantic, it moved away from any landmasses as it regained hurricane  strength on September 10 and reached a secondary peak of 105 mph (165 km/h) or a category 2 hurricane on September 11. After entering the waters of the  , it moved away from any landmasses as it regained hurricane  strength on   and reached a secondary peak of 5 mph ( km/h) or a category  hurricane on  .
67 new+york The hurricane weakened slightly before becoming extratropical on September 12. The hurricane weakened slightly before becoming extratropical on  .
68 new+york The hurricane was the strongest storm of the season and caused 26 deaths. The hurricane was the strongest storm of the season and caused  deaths.
69 new+york The storm caused large damage from Florida to New York. The storm caused large damage from  to  .
70 new+york The first known storm of the season—which would also become the strongest—is listed in the hurricane database as having formed on August 8 in the eastern Gulf of Mexico, just offshore the west coast of the Florida peninsula, although it is possible the hurricane was related to a heavy gale encountered by a ship on August 5 during its voyage from Havana, Cuba to New York City. The  known storm  the season—which would also become the strongest—is listed in the hurricane database as having formed on   in the eastern   , just fshore the west coast  the  , although it is possible the hurricane was related to a heavy gale encountered by a ship on   during its voyage from ,  to   .
71 new+york The cyclone drifted souhwest for three days, gradually intensifying to attain a strength corresponding to Category 3 major hurricane status on the modern-day Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale. The cyclone drifted souhwest for  , gradually intensifying to attain a strength corresponding to Category  major hurricane status on the modern-day Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
72 new+york Beginning on August 11, the hurricane slowly curved to the north, then gained an easterly component to its movement, and was at its peak intensity with maximum sustained winds of  about midday. Beginning on  , the hurricane slowly curved to the north, then gained an easterly component to its movement, and was at its peak intensity with maximum sustained winds of  about midday.
73 new+york A 1960 publication mentioned a tropical storm near Cape Hatteras, North Carolina sometime in October 1861 without specifying a date. A  publication mentioned a tropical storm near  ,   sometime in   without specifying a date.
74 new+york Newspaper reports indicate that ships mainly north of the Cape Hatteras area encountered strong northerly gales for several days starting on October 7, and winds in New York City persisted from October 7 to October 10 with a northerly component. spaper reports indicate that ships mainly north of the   area encountered strong northerly gales for   starting on  , and winds in    persisted from   to   with a northerly component.
75 new+york Partagás (1995) noted, "These findings do not seem to support a tropical system but the author made the decision of retaining the storm [...] due to the lack of solid evidence against its existence." Partagás () noted, "These findings do not seem to support a tropical system but the author made the decision of retaining the storm [...] due to the lack of solid evidence against its existence."
76 new+york However, little is known about the system, and its inclusion in the hurricane database is limited to a single point at 35.3°N, 75.3°W. However, little is known about the system, and its inclusion in the hurricane database is limited to a single point at N, W.
77 new+york However, the hurricane also had a significant impact on land. However, the hurricane also had a significant impact on land.
78 new+york Earlier in the year, Union forces had captured the fort guarding Hatteras Inlet at the Battle of Hatteras Inlet Batteries. Earlier in  , Union forces had captured  fort guarding   at  Battle of   Batteries.
79 new+york In the early morning hours of November 2, high seas began to overwash Hatteras Island, "completely covering all dry land except the position of the fort itself". In       , high seas began to overwash  , "completely covering all dry land except  position   fort itself".
80 new+york After four hours, water began to subside. After  , water began to subside.
81 new+york Extremely high tides associated with the cyclone continued up the coast as far north as Portland, Maine. Extremely high tides associated with the cyclone continued up the coast as far north as , .
82 new+york Storm tides at various points, including New York City, Newport, Rhode Island, and Boston, reached levels unseen for at least 10 years and up to 46 years. Srm tides  various points, including   , port,  , and , reached levels unseen for     and    .
83 new+york In New York, the storm persisted for 20 hours starting early on November 2; rising waters inundated wharves along the East and Hudson Rivers. In  , the storm persisted for   starting early on  ; rising waters inundated wharves along the East and  .
84 new+york Floodwaters flowed up to five blocks inland, and a popular bar located in a hotel became isolated by the flooding. Floodwaters flowed up to  blocks inland, and a popular bar located in a hotel became isolated by the flooding.
85 new+york In response, a man transported customers to and from the bar on his private boat at a cost of two cents per ride. In response, a man transported customers to and from the bar on his private boat at a cost of two cents per ride.
86 new+york Strong winds in Brooklyn brought down trees and telegraph wires. Strong winds in  brought down trees and telegraph wires.
87 new+york Two tropical systems are known to have existed during the month of October. tropical systems are known to have existed during    .
88 new+york The first was originally documented by Partagás (1995), who detected it based on a faulty report of a violent gale from a ship, the "Mariquita". The  was originally documented by  (), who detected it based on a faulty report of a violent gale from a ship, the "".
89 new+york The report was said to have been from October 16, but given her arrival date in New York City four days later and her location at the time of her encounter with the storm, she probably encountered the cyclone much earlier in the month. The report was said to have been from  , but given her arrival date in       and her location at  time of her encounter with  storm, she probably encountered  cyclone much earlier in  .
90 new+york The violent south-southwesterly gale lasted 15 hours when the vessel was probably located at 20.5°N, 47°W. The violent south-southwesterly gale lasted   when the vessel was probably located at N, W.
91 new+york The storm was initially assigned a single set of coordinates for October 6, and no attempt was made to reconstruct its track due to a lack of certain data on it. The storm was initially assigned a single set of coordinates for  , and no attempt was made to reconstruct its track due to a lack of certain data on it.
92 new+york However, it was noted that a ship further north on October 9 experienced a heavy gale. However, it was noted that a ship further north on   experienced a heavy gale.
93 new+york Based on the likely correlation between the two ship reports, the storm's track was extended four days to late on October 9 in the Atlantic hurricane database. Based on the likely correlation between the  ship reports, the storm's track was extended   to late on   in the  hurricane database.
94 new+york On May 30, a tropical storm in the western Caribbean Sea wrecked a ship named the "Golden Rule", which was sailing from New York to the east coast of Nicaragua. On  , a tropical storm in the western   wrecked a ship named the " ", which was sailing from   to the east coast of .
95 new+york The ship first encountered the storm on May 29, reporting high winds and heavy rainfall. The ship  encountered the storm on  , reporting high winds and heavy rainfall.
96 new+york After the wreck, the crew sailed to a nearby island, where they were rescued by two United States ships after 10 days. After the wreck, the crew sailed to a nearby island, where they were rescued by    ships after  .
97 new+york The winds were estimated at 60 mph (95 km/h), although the entire track of the storm is unknown. The winds were estimated at  mph ( km/h), although the entire track of the storm is unknown.
98 new+york On September 18 and for two days subsequently, a barque sailed through a hurricane near the Cape Verde islands. On   and for   subsequently, a barque sailed through a hurricane near the   islands.
99 new+york The vessel was en route from New York to Shanghai, but due to a leak from the storm it had to return to New York for repairs. The vessel was en route from   to , but due to a leak from the storm it had to return to   for repairs.
100 new+york Aside from a single reported location, the track of the hurricane is unknown. Aside from a single reported location, the track of the hurricane is unknown.
101 new+york Winds were estimated around . Winds were estimated around .
102 new+york The final known hurricane of the season was observed on October 15, to the northeast of the central Bahamas. The final known hurricane of the season was observed on  , to the northeast of the central Bahamas.
103 new+york The ship "Jim Cow", en route from New York to Panama, suffered heavy damage from the storm, so much that it could not complete its voyage. The ship "Jim Cow", en route from   to , suffered heavy damage from the storm, so much that it could not complete its voyage.
104 new+york Moving generally northeastward, the hurricane was estimated to have reached peak winds of 105 mph (165 km/h), based on ship reports. Moving generally northeastward, the hurricane was estimated to have reached peak winds of  mph ( km/h), based on ship reports.
105 new+york On October 17 the cyclone was absorbed by a rapidly intensifying extratropical cyclone off the coast of New England. On   the cyclone was absorbed by a rapidly intensifying extratropical cyclone off the coast of  .
106 new+york It never affected land. It never affected land.
107 new+york The hurricane was referred as Saxby's Gale after Lieutenant S.M. Saxby of the Royal Navy predicted in November 1868 that an unusually violent storm would produce very high tides on October 5; he did not specify the location, however. The hurricane was referred as 's  after Lieutenant   of the   predicted in   that an unusually violent storm would produce very high tides on  ; he did not specify the location, however.
108 new+york Although heavy damage occurred in New England, the devastation was greatest in Atlantic Canada along the Bay of Fundy. Although heavy damage occurred in  , the devastation was greatest in   along the Bay of .
109 new+york The hurricane produced a storm surge of around , which, in combination with the winds, the low pressure, and being in a region of naturally occurring high tides, produced a 70.9 ft (21.6 m) high tide near the head of the bay. The hurricane produced a storm surge of around , which, in combination with the winds, the low pressure, and being in a region of naturally occurring high tides, produced a  ft ( m) high tide near the head of the bay.
110 new+york The high tides surpassed the dykes across New Brunswick and left widespread flooding, killing many cattle and sheep and washing away roads. The high tides surpassed the dykes across   and left widespread flooding, killing many cattle and sheep and washing away roads.
111 new+york In the Cumberland Basin, the floods washed two boats about 3 mi (5 km) inland. In the  , the floods washed  boats about  mi ( km) inland.
112 new+york In Moncton, water levels rose about 6.6 ft (2 m) higher than the previous highest level. In , water levels rose about  ft ( m) higher than the previous highest level.
113 new+york There were 37 deaths between Maine, New Brunswick, and New York. There were  deaths between ,  , and  .
114 new+york A tropical storm was first observed on September 1 to the east of the Bahamas. A tropical storm was  observed on   to the east of the .
115 new+york There, it left heavy damage to a brig sailing from Nassau to New York. There, it left heavy damage to a brig sailing from  to  .
116 new+york The storm tracked generally northeastward, affecting another ship with damaging on September 2 near Bermuda. The storm tracked generally northeastward, affecting another ship with damaging on   near .
117 new+york At landfall, the hurricane was compact, estimated around  wide. At landfall, the hurricane was compact, estimated around  wide.
118 new+york However, less than 10 miles (16 km) west of the center, there were no strong winds. However, less than  miles ( km) west of the center, there were no strong winds.
119 new+york The hurricane produced a storm surge of , which was lessened due to it moving ashore at low tide. The hurricane produced a storm surge of , which was lessened due to it moving ashore at low tide.
120 new+york In Providence, Rhode Island, high waves damaged coastal wharves and left flooding. In ,  , high waves damaged coastal wharves and left flooding.
121 new+york The hurricane weakened quickly over land, passing just west of Boston early on September 9 as a minimal hurricane. The hurricane weakened quickly over land, passing just west of  early on   as a minimal hurricane.
122 new+york There, the winds downed many trees and left severe damage. There, the winds downed many trees and left severe damage.
123 new+york All telegraph lines between New York and Boston were cut, although the storm did produce beneficial heavy rainfall. All telegraph lines between   and  were cut, although the storm did produce beneficial heavy rainfall.
124 new+york Shortly thereafter it dissipated over Maine. Shortly thereafter it dissipated over .
125 new+york There was one confirmed death in Massachusetts. There was  confirmed death in .
126 new+york Offshore Maine, a schooner capsized, killing all but one in the crew. Offshore , a schor capsized, killing all but  in the crew.
127 new+york A strong,  tropical storm  was first observed south of Florida on June 1. A strong,  tropical storm  was  observed south of  on  .
128 new+york The storm traversed through the Gulf of Mexico before making landfall near Houston, Texas as a tropical storm on June 4, where a minimum pressure of 999 mbar was measured. The storm traversed through the Gulf of  before making landfall near ,  as a tropical storm on  , where a minimum pressure of  mbar was measured.
129 new+york A station in Galveston, Texas recorded  of rain during a 14 minute time span on June 4. A station in ,  recorded  of rain during a   time span on  .
130 new+york Galveston was partially flooded with some railroads and buildings washed away. was partially flooded with some railroads and buildings washed away.
131 new+york One vessel, the steamship "Alabama" was thrown ashore at Galveston,while another,the "Virginia Dare" grounded on an offshore sandbar there. vessel, the steamship "" was thrown ashore at ,while another,the "Virginia Dare" grounded on an offshore sandbar there.
132 new+york Extremely heavy rains associated with this cyclone also caused flooding in New Orleans. Extremely heavy rains associated with this cyclone also caused flooding in  .
133 new+york The New York Times,on June 6,reported that five hundred blocks of the city were submerged. The   ,on  ,reported that   blocks of the city were submerged.
134 new+york Eventually the storm dissipated in present-day Oklahoma. Eventually the storm dissipated in present-day .
135 new+york It destroyed 1200 boats and 900 buildings in Nova Scotia, and killed at least 223 people, mostly sailors who were lost at sea.This number is disputed, as The Monthly Weather Review published by the American Meteorological Society set the death toll at 223 but the New York Times published a death toll of 600. It destroyed  boats and  buildings in  , and killed at least  people, mostly sailors who were lost at sea.This number is disputed, as     published by the    set the death toll at  but the    published a death toll of .
136 new+york The hurricane caused $3.5 million in damage (1873 US dollars, or $53.9 million in 2005 dollars). The hurricane caused $3.5 million in damage (  dollars, or $53.9 million in  dollars).
137 new+york During this hurricane, the first hurricane warning was issued between Cape May, New Jersey and New London, Connecticut. During this hurricane, the  hurricane warning was issued between Cape ,   and  , .
138 new+york On October 18 a tropical storm formed west of Jamaica. On   a tropical storm formed west of .
139 new+york As it neared landfall in Cuba, it strengthened to a 100 mph (160 km/h) hurricane, but weakened while crossing the island. As it neared landfall in , it strengthened to a  mph ( km/h) hurricane, but weakened while crossing the island.
140 new+york It passed over southeast Florida and the Bahamas, strengthening to a 100 mph (160 km/h) hurricane again before hitting North Carolina between Wilmington and Morehead City.The hurricane raced across the interior of the United States, becoming extratropical on the 24th over New York. It passed over southeast  and the , strengthening to a  mph ( km/h) hurricane again before hitting   between  and  City.The hurricane raced across the interior of the  , becoming extratropical on the  over  .
141 new+york The hurricane caused over $2 million in damage, and at least 72 casualties.These included 19 people killed when a ship, the "A.S.Davis", was driven ashore at Virginia Beach.In all the hurricane was responsible for 22 shipwrecks.Among these was the steamer "City of Houston" which was lost on  Frying Pan Shoals. The hurricane caused over $2 million in damage, and at least  casualties.These included  people killed when a ship, the "A.S.Davis", was driven ashore at  Beach.In all the hurricane was responsible for  shipwrecks.Among these was the steamer "City of " which was lost on  Frying Pan Shoals.
142 new+york On August 19 Hurricane three formed southwest of Haiti and battered the Caribbean with heavy rains and a 5 ft storm surge.Hurricane three was pushed away from the south by a high pressure system and strengthened to a category 1 hurricane west of Virginia. On   Hurricane  formed southwest of  and battered the  with heavy rains and a  ft storm surge.Hurricane  was pushed away from the south by a high pressure system and strengthened to a category  hurricane west of .
143 new+york The storm took a course 70 miles away from New England and dissipated on August 28. The storm took a course  miles away from   and dissipated on  .
144 new+york The remains traveled to New York and Maine and soaked the area. The remains traveled to   and  and soaked the area.
145 new+york The "4th storm" of the season began its life in the Central Tropical Atlantic on August 15. The " storm" of the season began its life in the    on  .
146 new+york The storm moved west-northwestward for the first week of its life, while strengthening on the way. The storm moved west-northwestward for    of its life, while strengning on  way.
147 new+york As it reached Category 3 strength, it moved more northwestward. As it reached Category  strength, it moved more northwestward.
148 new+york Cooler waters weakened the storm, but it managed to hit New York City directly as an  hurricane. Cooler waters weakened the storm, but it managed to hit    directly as an  hurricane.
149 new+york It was one of only two hurricanes to directly hit New York throughout the 19th century, with the other being the 1821 Norfolk and Long Island hurricane. It was  of only  hurricanes to directly hit   throughout   , with  or being    and   hurricane.
150 new+york This storm was one of four active hurricanes on August 22. This storm was  of  active hurricanes on  .
151 new+york The worst of the damage was reportedly confined to a  area surrounding New York City. The worst of the damage was reportedly confined to a  area surrounding   .
152 new+york In a 24-hour period,  of precipitation fell, breaking the daily rainfall record. In a  period,  of precipitation fell, breaking the daily rainfall record.
153 new+york Hundreds of thousands of dollars in losses accompanied the severe impact. Hundreds of thousands of dollars in losses accompanied the severe impact.
154 new+york Low-lying areas of the city, particularly those near the coast, were flooded. Low-lying areas of the city, particularly those near the coast, were flooded.
155 new+york Roofs and chimneys were ripped off buildings and windows were broken in many homes and businesses. Roofs and chimneys were ripped off buildings and windows were broken in many homes and businesses.
156 new+york In Central Park, "More than a hundred noble trees were torn up by the roots, and branches were twisted off everywhere." In Central Park, "More than a  noble trees were torn up by the roots, and branches were twisted off everywhere."
157 new+york The park was devastated and thousands of dead birds fell to the ground after being washed out of, or drowned in, their nests. The park was devastated and thousands of dead birds fell to the ground after being washed out of, or drowned in, their nests.
158 new+york Groups of children gathered the birds and picked them up, with the apparent intention of selling them to restaurants. Groups of children gathered the birds and picked them up, with the apparent intention of selling them to restaurants.
159 new+york The storm took the lives of 34 sailors as vessels were blown ashore and men swept overboard. The storm took the lives of  sailors as vessels were blown ashore and men swept overboard.
160 new+york The tugboat "Panther", towing two coal barges, was wrecked; 17 crew members perished and three lived. The tugboat "Panther", towing  coal barges, was wrecked;  crew members perished and  lived.
161 new+york Winds from the storm exceeded  at Atlantic City and New York, initially blowing from the northeast before shifting southwesterly. Winds from the storm exceeded  at   and  , initially blowing from the northeast before shifting southwesterly.
162 new+york The hurricane wrought severe destruction, described by "The New York Times" on August 25 as "a mighty war of winds and a great tumbling of chimneys". The hurricane wrought severe destruction, described by "The   " on   as "a mighty war of winds and a great tumbling of chimneys".
163 new+york A  storm surge impacted the shore, demolishing structures. A  storm surge impacted the shore, demolishing structures.
164 new+york The storm has been cited as an example of a noteworthy New York City tropical cyclone. The storm has been cited as an example of a noteworthy    tropical cyclone.
165 new+york The cyclone is known for largely destroying Hog Island, a developed island that existed south of the modern-day Long Island coast. The cyclone is known for largely destroying  , a developed island that existed south of the modern-day   coast.
166 new+york The island peaked in size during the 1870s at about  long. The island peaked in size during   at about  long.
167 new+york Less than a day later, the storm deteriorated to Category 2 strength. dy lter, the storm deteriorted to Ctegory  strength.
168 new+york Cape Hatteras, North Carolina experienced the hurricane on the morning of August 23 while its center passed less than  offshore. ,   experienced the hurricane on the morning of   while its center passed less than  offshore.
169 new+york Heading nearly due northward, the cyclone skimmed the New Jersey coastline, passing just east of Atlantic City, and weakened further to Category 1 status. Heading nearly due northward, the cyclone skimmed the   coastline, passing just east of  , and weakened further to Category  status.
170 new+york On August 23 the storm was one of four hurricanes occurring simultaneously within the Atlantic Ocean. On   the storm was  of  hurricanes occurring simultaneously within the  .
171 new+york On August 24 the storm moved ashore on western Long Island, in the New York City area. On   the storm moved ashore on western  , in the    area.
172 new+york At 1200 UTC that day, while centered just inland, its maximum winds were estimated to have been 85 mph (140 km/h). At  UTC that , while centered just inland, its maximum winds were estimated to have been  mph ( km/h).
173 new+york It progressed northward through New England, quickly growing weaker. It progressed northward through  , quickly growing weaker.
174 new+york It was briefly downgraded to a tropical storm before becoming extratropical. It was briefly downgraded to a tropical storm before becoming extratropical.
175 new+york It dissipated fully on August 25, near the mouth of the Saint Lawrence River. It dissipated fully on  , near the mouth of the Saint  .
176 new+york The "1893 New York hurricane" was a powerful and destructive tropical cyclone that struck the New York City area in August 1893. The "   hurricane" was a powerful and destructive tropical cyclone that struck the    area in  .
177 new+york First identified as a tropical storm on August 15, over the central Atlantic Ocean, the hurricane moved northwestward for most of its course, ultimately peaking with maximum sustained winds of 115 mph (185 km/h) and a minimum barometric pressure reading of 952 mbar (hPa; 28.11 inHg). identified as a tropical storm on  , over the central  , the hurricane moved northwestward for most of its course, ultimately peaking with maximum sustained winds of 1 mph ( km/h) and a minimum barometric pressure reading of  mbar (hPa;  inHg).
178 new+york It turned due northward as it approached the U.S. East Coast and struck western Long Island on August 24. It turned due northward as it approached the    and struck western   on  .
179 new+york It moved inland and quickly deteriorated, degenerating the next day. It moved inland and quickly deteriorated, degenerating   .
180 new+york At Brooklyn, still an independent city from New York, houses were dismantled and uprooted trees blocked streets. At , still an independent city from  , houses were dismantled and uprooted trees blocked streets.
181 new+york Damage was widespread throughout the area and flood waters reached waist-high levels. Damage was widespread throughout the area and flood waters reached waist-high levels.
182 new+york The storm was the most severe in years at Jersey City, New Jersey, despite the fact that its damage was moderate. The storm was the most severe in  at  ,  , despite the fact that its damage was moderate.
183 new+york Trees were blown down and cellars filled with water there and in nearby areas, such as Hoboken. Trees were blown down and cellars filled with water there and in nearby areas, such as .
184 new+york There were 10 days of temperatures above  with 90 percent humidity. There were   of temperatures above  with 90 percent humidity.
185 new+york The temperatures did not drop at night. The temperatures did not drop at night.
186 new+york It caused more deaths than the 1863 New York City draft riots or the 1871 Great Chicago Fire. It caused more deaths than the     draft riots or the  Great  Fire.
187 new+york Before the hurricane made landfall in Georgia, it produced strong winds in northeastern Florida, reaching Category 2 strength on the Saffir-Simpson scale. Before the hurricane made landfall in , it produced strong winds in northeastern , reaching Category  strength on the  scale.
188 new+york The worst effects from the storm were confined to a very small portion of extreme northeastern Florida. The worst effects from the storm were confined to a very small portion of extreme northeastern .
189 new+york At Fernandina Beach, the storm surge was estimated at 12 ft (3.7 m), causing extensive flooding in the city. At  , the storm surge was estimated at  ft ( m), causing extensive flooding in the city.
190 new+york The October 1898 Monthly Weather Review described Fernandina as "nearly destroyed", and most anchored boats were sunk or washed inland into the marshes. The   Monthly Weather Review described  as "nearly destroyed", and most anchored boats were sunk or washed inland into the marshes.
191 new+york Damage along the coastline reached as far south as Mayport. Damage along the coastline reached as far south as .
192 new+york The hurricane was small, and despite passing 50 miles (80 km) northeast of Jacksonville, produced only 60 mph (97 km/h) winds in the city. The hurricane was small, and despite passing  miles ( km) northeast of , produced only  mph ( km/h) winds in the city.
193 new+york However, for the first time in the history of the city, all communications were cut between Jacksonville and cities further north, such as New York. However, for the  time in the history of the city, all communications were cut between  and cities further north, such as  .
194 new+york Damage throughout the state was estimated at $500,000 (1898 USD). Damage throughout the state was estimated at $500,000 ( USD).
195 new+york On October 10, a tropical storm developed west of the Yucatán Peninsula and began moving northeast through the Gulf of Mexico, strengthening little. On  , a tropical storm developed west  the   and began moving northeast through the   , strengthening little.
196 new+york The system made landfall near Lake City, Florida on October 12 with 45 mph (75 km/h) winds and quickly became extratropical as it moved across northern Florida. The system made landfall near  ,  on   with  mph ( km/h) winds and quickly became extratropical as it moved across northern .
197 new+york The extratropical low skirted the East Coast of the United States before making landfall on Long Island, New York and accelerating through New England into eastern Canada, where it dissipated. The extratropical low skirted the East Coast of the   before making landfall on  ,   and accelerating through   into eastern , where it dissipated.
198 new+york A tropical storm formed in the south central Atlantic on August 27 with winds of 40 mph (65 km/h). A tropical storm formed in the south central  on   with winds of  mph ( km/h).
199 new+york The weak tropical storm moved west-northwest for a week through the Dominican Republic, Haiti, and Cuba. The wek tropicl storm moved west-northwest for   through the Dominicn , Hiti, nd Cub.
200 new+york After leaving Cuba and entering the Gulf of Mexico, it intensified rapidly into a Category 1 hurricane late on September 6 and eventually to a Category 4 hurricane on September 8, peaking with winds of 140 mph (220 km/h) before making landfall near Galveston, Texas. After leaving  and entering the   , it intensified rapidly into a Category  hurricane late on   and eventually to a Category  hurricane on  , peaking with winds  0 mph ( km/h) before making landfall near , .
201 new+york The hurricane was unforeseen in Galveston, resulting in the storm surge and wind damage causing an immense loss of life. The hurricane was unforeseen in , resulting in the storm surge and wind damage causing an immense loss of life.
202 new+york After moving inland, it quickly weakened to a tropical storm and began to move northeast across the central United States through Michigan and into New York and through Maine. After moving inland, it quickly weakened to a tropical storm and began to move northeast across the central   through  and into   and through .
203 new+york All in all, the Galveston Hurricane of 1900 was responsible for 8,000 to 12,000 deaths, making it the deadliest natural disaster in U.S. history. All in all, the  Hurricane of  was responsible for  to  deaths, making it the deadliest natural disaster in  history.
204 new+york "Saale" was gutted, with the highest death toll. "Saale" was gutted, with the highest death toll.
205 new+york After she became engulfed in flames, her mooring lines lines were cut, leaving her to drift as fire reached those further below deck. After she became engulfed in flames, her mooring lines lines were cut, leaving her to drift as fire reached those further below deck.
206 new+york Finally towed after she drifted toward New York piers, she settled in the Jersey flats near Liberty Island. Finally towed after she drifted toward   piers, she settled in the Jersey flats near  .
207 new+york Her death toll included her captain (August Johann Mirow), and members (primarily women) of a group known as Christian Endeavor, who were visiting the ship before the fire started. Her death toll included her captain (  ), and members (primarily women) of a group known as  , who were visiting the ship before the fire started.
208 new+york "Main" was furthest from the fire’s starting point, but was soon engulfed with fire. "Main" was furthest from the fire’s starting point, but was soon engulfed with fire.
209 new+york She was unable to get loose from her moorings for more than seven hours, until the fire was nearly over. She was unable to get loose from her moorings for    , until the fire was nearly over.
210 new+york Damaged nearly beyond repair, "Main" was ultimately towed to Weehawken, New Jersey, where she was beached. Damaged nearly beyond repair, "Main" was ultimately towed to ,  , where she was beached.
211 new+york Amazingly, 16 coal trimmers who had survived the fire hiding in a coal bunker then crawled out of the hulk. Amazingly,  coal trimmers who had survived the fire hiding in a coal bunker then crawled out of the hulk.
212 new+york Two days after the fire began, the red-hot ship continued to smolder and smoke, which further delayed rescue and recovery efforts. after the fire began, the red-hot ship continued to smolder and smoke, which further delayed rescue and recovery efforts.
213 new+york The "1900 Hoboken Docks Fire" occurred on June 30, 1900, and killed at least 326 persons in and around the Hoboken, New Jersey piers of the Norddeutscher Lloyd (NDL) shipping company. The "  Docks Fire" occurred on    and killed at least  persons in and around the    piers of the   () shipping company.
214 new+york The piers were located in New York Harbor, at the foot of 3rd and 4th Streets in Hoboken,  across the North River (Hudson River) from Manhattan in New York City. The piers were located in   , at the foot of    Streets in ,  across the   ( ) from  in   .
215 new+york The area, a few blocks north of Hoboken Terminal, is now mostly part of the Hudson River, without docks; a waterfront bicycle path lines it. The area, a few blocks north of  , is  mostly part of the  , without docks; a waterfront bicycle path lines it.
216 new+york There is, however, a "Pier C Park" on the northern side of the disaster area, which juts out into the water. There is, however, a "Pier C Park" on the northern side of the disaster area, which juts out into the water.
217 new+york The fire began when cotton bales stored on NDL’s southernmost wharf caught fire, and winds carried the flames to nearby barrels of volatile liquids, such as turpentine and oil, which exploded in rapid succession. The fire began when cotton bales stored on ’s southernmost wharf caught fire, and winds carried the flames to nearby barrels of volatile liquids, such as turpentine and oil, which exploded in rapid succession.
218 new+york It burned NDL’s Hoboken piers to the waterline, consumed or gutted nearby warehouses, gutted three of NDL’s major transatlantic liners, and damaged or destroyed nearly 24 smaller craft. It burned ’s  piers to the waterline, consumed or gutted nearby warehouses, gutted  of ’s major transatlantic liners, and damaged or destroyed nearly  smaller craft.
219 new+york Most of the victims were seamen and other workers, but included women visiting one of the ships. Most of the victims were seamen and other workers, but included women visiting  of the ships.
220 new+york During the afternoon of August 7, 1900, a strong tornado estimated at  wide, struck the city of New Rochelle, New York along a  path. During the afternoon of    a strong tornado estimated at  wide struck the city of     along a  path.
221 new+york The thunderstorm that produced the tornado tracked slightly north of due west through the area and was followed by a second strong thunderstorm that tracked northeastward. The thunderstorm tht produced the torndo trcked slightly north of due west through the re nd ws followed by   strong thunderstorm tht trcked northestwrd.
222 new+york Intense lightning was associated with the two storms, resulting in several fires. Intense lightning was associated with the  storms, resulting in several fires.
223 new+york The "1903 Vagabond Hurricane", as dubbed by The Press of Atlantic City, is the second most recent Atlantic hurricane to strike the state of New Jersey. The " Vagabond Hurricane", as dubbed by The Press of  , is the  most recent  hurricane to strike the state of  .
224 new+york The fourth hurricane of the season, the cyclone was first observed on September 12 about 550 miles (885 km) northeast of Antigua. The  hurricane of the season, the cyclone was  observed on   about  miles ( km) northeast of .
225 new+york It moved quickly westward, then later turned to the north-northwest, steadily strengthening to reach a peak intensity of 100 mph (155 km/h). It moved quickly westward, then later turned to the north-northwest, steadily strengthening to reach a peak intensity of  mph ( km/h).
226 new+york The hurricane weakened slightly before striking near Atlantic City, New Jersey, on September 16 with winds of 80 mph (130 km/h). The hurricane weakened slightly before striking near  ,  , on   with winds of  mph ( km/h).
227 new+york It weakened over Pennsylvania and became an extratropical cyclone over western New York on September 17. It weakened over  and became an extratropical cyclone over western   on  .
228 new+york The "1903 New Jersey hurricane", also known as the "Vagabond Hurricane" by "The Press of Atlantic City", is the most recent North Atlantic hurricane to make first landfall in the state of New Jersey. The "   hurricane", also known as the "Vagabond Hurricane" by "The Press of  ", is the most recent   hurricane to make  landfall in the state of  .
229 new+york The fourth hurricane of the season, the cyclone was first observed on September 12 about 550 miles (885 km) northeast of Antigua. The  hurricane of the season, the cyclone was  observed on   about  miles ( km) northeast of .
230 new+york It moved quickly westward, then later turned to the north-northwest, steadily strengthening to reach a peak intensity of 100 mph (155 km/h). It moved quickly westward, then later turned to the north-northwest, steadily strengthening to reach a peak intensity of  mph ( km/h).
231 new+york The hurricane weakened slightly before striking near Atlantic City, New Jersey on September 16 with winds of 80 mph (130 km/h). The hurricane weakened slightly before striking near  ,   on   with winds of  mph ( km/h).
232 new+york It weakened over Pennsylvania and became an extratropical cyclone over western New York on September 17. It weakened over  and became an extratropical cyclone over western   on  .
233 new+york President Theodore Roosevelt directly experienced the effects of the hurricane while vacationing on a yacht along Long Island. President   directly experienced the effects of the hurricane while vacationing on a yacht along  .
234 new+york The yacht experienced gusty winds and heavy rainfall, along with rough seas. The yacht experienced gusty winds and heavy rainfall, along with rough seas.
235 new+york After the President was considered to be in danger, the yacht headed for land, and instead of embarking toward Ellis Island as originally planned, the yacht approached Brooklyn Navy Yard. After the President was considered to be in danger, the yacht headed for land, and instead of embarking toward   as originally planned, the yacht approached   .
236 new+york No one onboard was injured. No  onboard was injured.
237 new+york Rough waves sunk or severely damaged dozens of boats across coastal areas of New York, leaving dozens injured. Rough waves sunk or severely damaged dozens of boats across coastal areas of  , leaving dozens injured.
238 new+york Winds in New York City reached 65 mph (105 km/h), with tropical storm force winds extending into Maine. Winds in    reached  mph ( km/h), with tropical storm force winds extending into .
239 new+york The outer moisture of the hurricane dropped 2.4 inches (61 mm) of rain in Central Park, with its gusty winds causing damage to suburban houses and signs. The outer moisture of the hurricane dropped  inches ( mm) of rain in  , with its gusty winds causing damage to suburban houses and signs.
240 new+york The storm in New York City lasted 4 to 5 hours with its height occurring around 12:30PM.Numerous windows were smashed in Manhattan and horse drawn carriages were blown over. The srm in    lasted     with its height occurring around 12:30PM.Numerous windows were smashed in  and horse drawn carriages were blown over.
241 new+york Homes in Brooklyn were flooded and sustained some damage such as chimneys, awnings blown down and some roofs taken off. Homes in  were flooded and sustained some damage such as chimneys, awnings blown down and some roofs taken off.
242 new+york Church Steeples were dislodged or blown off. Church Steeples were dislodged or blown off.
243 new+york In Brighton Beach the roof of the Ocean Hotel was completely blown off and a similar fate befell the top of the Steeplechase Tower in Coney Island resort area which sustained considerable damage. In   the roof of the Ocean Hotel was completely blown off and a similar fate befell the top of the Steeplechase Tower in   resort area which sustained considerable damage.
244 new+york The hurricane also left businesses and the stock market quiet for the day, owing to the threat of blowing debris. The hurricane also left businesses and  stock market quiet for  , owing to  threat of blowing debris.
245 new+york Operationally, the hurricane was first classified on the evening of September 15, based on ship reports. Operationally, the hurricane was  classified on the evening of  , based on ship reports.
246 new+york Strong winds were also reported along coastal areas of the Mid-Atlantic, and the United States National Weather Bureau issued storm warnings on the morning of September 16 through September 17. Strong winds were also reported along coastal areas of the , and the      issued storm warnings on the morning of     .
247 new+york The hurricane continued quickly northward, and made landfall near Atlantic City, New Jersey shortly before 1200 UTC on September 16 with winds of 80 mph (130 km/h). The hurricane continued quickly northward, and made landfall near  ,   shortly before  UTC on   with winds of  mph ( km/h).
248 new+york An area of convection in association with the hurricane continued north-northeastward, and operationally meteorologists estimated the center tracked into Connecticut. An area of convection in association with the hurricane continued north-northeastward, and operationally meteorologists estimated the center tracked into .
249 new+york However, post-analysis indicates the center of the hurricane continued northwestward, weakened into a tropical storm near Trenton, and after crossing northeastern Pennsylvania transitioned into an extratropical cyclone near Syracuse, New York. However, post-analysis indicates the center of the hurricane continued northwestward, weakened into a tropical storm near , and after crossing northeastern  transitioned into an extratropical cyclone near ,  .
250 new+york The extratropical remnant persisted for another 6 hours before losing its identity over eastern Ontario. The extratropical remnant persisted for    before losing its identity over eastern .
251 new+york The "1904 Chappaqua tornado" was an intense tornado that struck northern Westchester County, New York during the afternoon of July 16, 1904. The "  tornado" was an intense tornado that struck northern     during the afternoon of   .
252 new+york As of 2009, this tornado ranks as the strongest tornado to touch down in the county, ranking as F3 on the modern-day Fujita Scale. As of , this tornado ranks as the strongest tornado to touch down in the county, ranking as F3 on the modern-day  Scale.
253 new+york The tornado formed around 3:30 pm EST within a severe thunderstorm near Chappaqua, New York. The tornado formed around 3:30 pm EST within a severe thunderstorm near ,  .
254 new+york The tornado quickly began to produce damage in the town, destroying several structures and killing two people. The tornado quickly began to produce damage in the town, destroying several structures and killing  people.
255 new+york Homes were knocked off their foundations and rolled over along the tornado's path. Homes were knocked off their foundations and rolled over along the tornado's path.
256 new+york By 4:00 pm EST, the tornado dissipated and left $100,000 (1904 USD; $2.4 million 2009 USD) worth of damage in its wake. By 4:00 pm EST, the tornado dissipated and left $100,000 ( USD; $2.4 million 2009 USD) worth of damage in its wake.
257 new+york Hail associated with the same storm cell also inflicted damage upon a few structures. Hail associated with the same storm cell also inflicted damage upon a few structures.
258 new+york The tornado is known as the worst disaster in the history of Chappaqua. The tornado is known as the worst disaster in the history of .
259 new+york During the afternoon of July 16, 1904, a severe thunderstorm produced a strong tornado that touched down around 3:30 pm EST in Chappaqua, New York. During the afternoon of    a severe thunderstorm produced a strong tornado that touched down around 3:30 pm EST in   .
260 new+york Residents reported the first indication of the thunderstorm was a large black cloud approaching the region. Residents reported the  indication of the thunderstorm was a large black cloud approaching the region.
261 new+york The sky was reportedly completely dark as torrential rain and high winds commenced. The sky was reportedly completely dark as torrential rain and high winds commenced.
262 new+york Intense lightning and loud thunder prompted people to seek shelter in their cellars. Intense lightning and loud thunder prompted people to seek shelter in their cellars.
263 new+york The tornado tracked directly through Chappaqua before moving towards the Hudson River. The tornado tracked directly through  before moving towards the  .
264 new+york Upon reaching the river, the tornado became a waterspout that was powerful enough to uncover the river bed below it. Upon reaching the river, the tornado became a waterspout that was powerful enough to uncover the river bed below it.
265 new+york The waterspout eventually dissipated by 4:00 pm EST. The waterspout eventually dissipated by 4:00 pm EST.
266 new+york The tornado was later rated as F3 on the modern-day Fujita scale. The tornado was later rated as F3 on the modern-day  scale.
267 new+york At the time of the tornado, roughly 1,000 people lived in the town of Chappaqua. At the time of the tornado, roughly  people lived in the town of .
268 new+york Five homes and three barns were destroyed by the tornado and two people, 80-year-old Mrs. Mary Hibbs and an unknown woman, were killed; six additional people were injured. homes and  barns were destroyed by the tornado and  people,  Mrs.   and an unknown woman, were killed;  additional people were injured.
269 new+york Orchards in the path of the tornado were completely destroyed and greenhouses were leveled. Orchards in the path of the tornado were completely destroyed and greenhouses were leveled.
270 new+york The severity of lightning during the storm caused many women to faint according to "The New York Times". The severity of lightning during the storm caused many women to faint according to "The   ".
271 new+york The system that would eventually develop into a tropical storm was first noted by a ship north-northwest of Veracruz on September 23. The system that would eventually develop into a tropical storm was  noted by a ship north-northwest of  on  .
272 new+york It was recognized as a tropical storm on September 27 while was located above the Bay of Campeche, and moved northeastward, and slowly accelerated as it intensified. It was recognized as a tropical storm on   while was located above the Bay of , and moved northeastward, and slowly accelerated as it intensified.
273 new+york By September 28, it was moving moving east-northeastward at 24 mph (38 km/h), and simultaneously attained its peak intensity of 50 mph (85 km/h). By  , it was moving moving east-northeastward at  mph ( km/h), and simultaneously attained its peak intensity of  mph ( km/h).
274 new+york At this point, it remained just offshore the Florida panhandle, and moved inland shortly thereafter on September 29. At this point, it remained just offshore the  panhandle, and moved inland shortly thereafter on  .
275 new+york It plowed through northern Florida and southeastern Georgia while maintaining its intensity and transitioned into an extratropical cyclone off the coast of North Carolina on September 29. It plowed through northern  and southeastern  while maintaining its intensity and transitioned into an extratropical cyclone off the coast of   on  .
276 new+york The remnants of the storm merged with a cold front the following day while situated south of New York. The remnants of  storm merged with a cold front    while situated south of  .
277 new+york In the years following 1908, precautions were taken when reconstruction began, building architecture that would be able to withstand earthquakes of variable magnitude, if one should strike again. In    , precautions were taken when reconstruction began, building architecture that would be able to withstand earthquakes of variable magnitude, if  should strike again.
278 new+york In the midst of reconstruction many of the Italian residents were relocated to various parts of Italy. In the midst of reconstruction many of the  residents were relocated to various parts of .
279 new+york Others were forced to emigrate to America. Others were forced to emigrate to .
280 new+york In 1909 the cargo ship "Florida" carried 850 such passengers away from Naples. In  the cargo ship "" carried  such passengers away from .
281 new+york Lost in a dense fog, the "Florida" collided with the "Republic", a luxury passenger liner. Lost in a dense fog, the "" collided with the "Republic", a luxury passenger liner.
282 new+york Three people aboard the "Florida" were killed instantly. people aboard the "" were killed instantly.
283 new+york Within minutes, pandemonium broke out on the ship. Within , pandemonium broke out on the ship.
284 new+york The captain of the "Florida," Angelo Ruspini, used extreme measures to regain control of the desperate passengers, including firing gunshots into the air. The captain of the ","  , used extreme measures to regain control of the desperate passengers, including firing gunshots into the air.
285 new+york Eventually the survivors were rescued at sea and brought into the New York harbor where they would start a new life. Eventually the survivors were rescued at sea and brought into the   harbor where they would start a new life.
286 new+york In areas in and around Pensacola, Florida,  winds caused some damage. In areas in and around , ,  winds caused some damage.
287 new+york At the local pier, a ship, named "Romanoff", toppled over onto a wharf due to large waves produced by the hurricane. At the local pier, a ship, named "Romanoff", toppled over onto a wharf due to large waves produced by the hurricane.
288 new+york Two barges carrying lumber sank near the western beach of Pensacola and several others lost their cargo. barges carrying lumber sank near the western beach of  and several others lost their cargo.
289 new+york Many small ships were destroyed by large swells and according to the "New York Times", some of these were "...swamped and pounded into pieces". Many small ships were destroyed by large swells and according to the "  ", some of these were "...swamped and pounded into pieces".
290 new+york Further inland, the remnants of the hurricane brought light to moderate rainfall to portions of the central United States. Further inland, the remnants of the hurricane brought light to moderate rainfall to portions of the central  .
291 new+york A maximum of  of rain fell in Arkansas;  in Missouri;  in Tennessee; and  in Kentucky. A maximum of  of rain fell in ;  in ;  in ; and  in .
292 new+york A  section of the Louisville and Nashville railroad and an  section of the Illinois central railroad were washed out by floods caused by the storm's remnants. A  section of the  and  railroad and an  section of the  central railroad were washed out by floods caused by the storm's remnants.
293 new+york Michigan's narrow margin of victory over Case raised concerns about the team's prospects. 's narrow margin of victory over Case raised concerns about the team's prospects.
294 new+york "The Michigan Alumnus" attributed the low score to two factors "the disheartening frequency of the Michigan fumbles" and "the unexpected strength of the Case veterans" (the Case team had nine veterans among its starting eleven). "The  Alumnus" attributed the low  to  factors "the disheartening frequency of the  fumbles" and "the unexpected strength of the Case veterans" (the Case team had  veterans among its starting ).
295 new+york "The New York Times" blamed Michigan's close call on injuries: "Injuries and lack of training resulted in Michigan having a crippled line-up against the veteran Case eleven." "The   " blamed 's close call on injuries: "Injuries and lack of training resulted in  having a crippled line-up against the veteran Case ."
296 new+york The "Detroit Free Press" noted that the lack of healthy substitutes forced Michigan to play a conservative game so as to avoid further injuries. The "Detroit Free Press" noted that the lack of healthy substitutes forced  to play a conservative game so as to avoid further injuries.
297 new+york Immediately following the catastrophic flooding in Monterrey, an appeal was made to the United States and other nations for aid. Immediately following the catastrophic flooding in , an appeal was made to the   and other nations for aid.
298 new+york Many residents and visitors in the city did all they could to help rescue those trapped in the flood waters and take care of the homeless. Many residents and visitors in the city did all they could to help rescue those trapped in the flood waters and take care of the homeless.
299 new+york According to the "New York Times", one person rescued 30 people stranded in flood waters. According to the "  ",  person rescued  people stranded in flood waters.
300 new+york Numerous rescue operations were undertaken during the flood, saving many lives. Numerous rescue operations were undertaken during the flood, saving many lives.
301 new+york However, survivors faced another issue after losing their homes: lack of food. However, survivors faced another issue after losing their homes: lack of food.
302 new+york Food was unavailable to most residents in the wake of the storm until August 31 when the first relief supplies arrived. Food was unavailable to most residents in the wake of the storm until   when the  relief supplies arrived.
303 new+york Even then, most only received a small amount of bread and beans. Even then, most only received a small amount of bread and beans.
304 new+york Once the flood along the Santa Catarina River receded, searches were conducted to attempt to locate the bodies of victims. the flood along the    receded, searches were conducted to attempt to locate the bodies of victims.
305 new+york However, reports indicated that the river bed was similar to quicksand and most bodies on it were likely underground. However, reports indicated that the river bed was similar to quicksand and most bodies on it were likely underground.
306 new+york The "New York Times" wrote that Cuba had "probably suffered the greatest material disaster in all its history". The "  " wrote that  had "probably suffered the greatest material disaster in all its history".
307 new+york It was reported that thousands of peasants were left homeless due to the cyclone. It was reported that thousands of peasants were left homeless due to the cyclone.
308 new+york Losses in Havana were also extensive; along the shore, scores of ships carrying valuable cargo had sunk. Losses in  were also extensive; along the shore, scores of ships carrying valuable cargo had sunk.
309 new+york The storm also seriously damaged goods stored on local wharves and barges. The storm also seriously damaged goods stored on local wharves and barges.
310 new+york "Tremendous" waves crashed ashore, flooding coastal areas. "Tremendous" waves crashed ashore, flooding coastal areas.
311 new+york Numerous ships and small watercraft were wrecked by the cyclone. Numerous ships and small watercraft were wrecked by the cyclone.
312 new+york The raging seas submerged about  of Havana's oceanfront land. The raging seas submerged about  of 's oceanfront land.
313 new+york The Malecón sea wall breached, allowing flood waters to engulf the roadway there and residences in the area. The Malecón sea wall breached, allowing flood waters to engulf the roadway there and residences in the area.
314 new+york The "1911 Eastern North America heat wave" was an 11-day heat wave in New York City and other Eastern cities that killed 380 people starting on July 4, 1911. The "    heat wave" was an  heat wave in    and other  cities that killed  people starting on   .
315 new+york In Nashua, New Hampshire, the temperature peaked at 106 degrees Fahrenheit (41 C). In ,  , the temperature peaked at  degrees Fahrenheit ( C).
316 new+york In New York City, 146 people and 600 horses died. In   ,  people and  horses died.
317 new+york Reportedly, 2,000 homes in Omaha alone were destroyed, $8 million total damage from the storm, $5.5 million of which was in Omaha (financial damage estimates vary, the NOAA reports more damage than this). Reportedly,  homes in  alone were destroyed, $8 million total damage from the storm, $5.5 million of which was in  (financial damage estimates vary, the  reports more damage than this).
318 new+york The same storm system that struck Nebraska also created a huge dust storm in Topeka, Kansas. The same storm system that struck  also created a huge dust storm in , .
319 new+york On Sunday night, it spawned another deadly tornado in Terre Haute, Indiana, killing 50. On  night, it spawned another deadly tornado in  , , killing .
320 new+york On Monday and Tuesday, the storm brought heavy rains to the Midwest and upstate New York, causing widespread flooding. On  and , the storm brought heavy rains to the  and upstate  , causing widespread flooding.
321 new+york The dissipating remnants of the 1915 hurricane dumped heavy rains across the eastern Midwest and Ohio Valley states before fading out for good on August 23. The dissipating remnants of the  hurricane dumped heavy rains across the eastern  and   states before fading out for good on  .
322 new+york The rains caused extensive flash flooding that left significant damage from Missouri to New York. The rains caused extensive flash flooding that left significant damage from  to  .
323 new+york Exact damage totals and reports of deaths or injuries are unknown. Exact damage totals and reports of deaths or injuries are unknown.
324 new+york Andrew Goodlife, professor of geological sciences at the University of Alabama believes Alabama is at "high" risk from earthquakes. , pressor  geological sciences at the    believes  is at "high" risk from earthquakes.
325 new+york He also claims that "If there is an earthquake in one of the zone areas, North Alabama is certainly going to feel it. He also claims that "If there is an earthquake in  of the z areas,   is certainly going to feel it.
326 new+york There's going to be damage and some perhaps major. There's going to be damage and some perhaps major.
327 new+york If one occurred in the zone close to Memphis, it would be devastating because buildings are not made to withstand earthquakes. If  occurred in the z close to , it would be devastating because buildings are not made to withstand earthquakes.
328 new+york Places like San Francisco are aware of earthquake risks and structures are built to withstand them." Places like   are aware of earthquake risks and structures are built to withstand them."
329 new+york In his definition, the state's earthquakes are "insignificant". In his definition, the state's earthquakes are "insignificant".
330 new+york Emergency planner Bill Thomison is skeptical of a major earthquake, stating that "I don't believe there are any major faults (interface of rocks) here. Emergency planner   is skeptical of a major earthquake, stating that "I don't believe there are any major faults (interface of rocks) here.
331 new+york It depends on the magnitude of the earthquake and the Richter scale. It depends on the magnitude of the earthquake and the  scale.
332 new+york You could have a No. 4 (magnitude) earthquake in California and not damage anything, but the same type in New York could be devastating because the building codes don't factor in earthquakes." You could have a No.  (magnitude) earthquake in  and not damage anything, but the same type in   could be devastating because the building codes don't factor in earthquakes."
333 new+york The third tropical cyclone of the season formed 420 miles (675 km) southeast of Bridgetown, Barbados on August 16. The  tropical cyclone of the season formed  miles ( km) southeast of ,  on  .
334 new+york It moved northwest and crossed the eastern Caribbean as a minimal tropical storm on August 18. It moved northwest and crossed the eastern  as a minimal tropical storm on  .
335 new+york On August 19, it passed east of San Juan, Puerto Rico and re-entered the Atlantic Ocean. On  , it passed east of  ,   and re-entered the  .
336 new+york On August 20, it quickly strengthened to the equivalent of a Category 1 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale. On  , it quickly strengthened to the equivalent of a Category  hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
337 new+york The cyclone slowed and turned west on August 21, and it continued to strengthen east of the northern Bahamas. The cyclone slowed and turned west on  , and it continued to strengthen east of the northern .
338 new+york The cyclone strengthened to a peak intensity of 135 mph (215 km/h) north of Grand Bahama on August 24. The cyclone strengthened to a peak intensity of  mph ( km/h) north of   on  .
339 new+york At the time, the storm was nearly stationary. At the time, the storm was nearly stationary.
340 new+york Several ships reported winds of hurricane force, rough seas, and atmospheric pressure readings to 970 mbar (28.67 inHg) from August 23 through August 25. Several ships reported winds of hurricane force, rough seas, and atmospheric pressure readings to  mbar ( inHg) from   through  .
341 new+york The cyclone turned sharply north, remaining east of the East Coast. The cyclone turned sharply north, remaining east of the  .
342 new+york On August 25, it quickly weakened, and it passed close to Cape Hatteras on August 26. On  , it quickly weakened, and it passed close to   on  .
343 new+york It transitioned to an extratropical cyclone, and it passed over Nova Scotia on August 27. It transitioned to an extratropical cyclone, and it passed over   on  .
344 new+york The approach of the storm led to the issuance of storm warnings from Cape Hatteras to Miami, Florida on August 22. The approach of the storm led to the issuance of storm warnings from   to ,  on  .
345 new+york Hurricane warnings extended from Beaufort, North Carolina to Cape Henry. Hurricane warnings extended from ,   to  .
346 new+york In advance of the storm, radio broadcasts also advised shipping interests to remain cautious north of Puerto Rico. In advance of the storm, radio broadcasts also advised shipping interests to remain cautious north of  .
347 new+york No damages occurred along the coast because of the recurving storm. No damages occurred along the coast because of the recurving storm.
348 new+york Peak wind gusts reached 74 mph (120 km/h) at Hatteras, North Carolina, and two people drowned along the coast. Peak wind gusts reached  mph ( km/h) at ,  , and  people drowned along the coast.
349 new+york Damage was minimal, though Ocracoke Island was flooded during the storm. Damage was minimal, though   was flooded during the storm.
350 new+york The White Star passenger liner  was battered by the storm on August 26 while the ship was off the Nantucket Shoals. The White Star passenger liner  was battered by the storm on   while the ship was off the Nantucket Shoals.
351 new+york The ship arrived in New York the following day with 75 injured after having what was reported as a "100-foot wave" crash over the liner. The ship arrived in      with  injured after having what was reported as a "100-foot wave" crash over  liner.
352 new+york Due to the large size of the storm as an extratropical cyclone, gale and storm warnings in force from Beaufort, North Carolina to Eastport, Maine. Due to the large size of the storm as an extratropical cyclone, gale and storm warnings in force from ,   to , .
353 new+york In North Carolina, heavy rains and strong winds were reported along the coast. In  , heavy rains and strong winds were reported along the coast.
354 new+york Near record high water rises were recorded around Wilmington. Cape Hatteras was temporarily isolated from the surrounding areas as the high winds from the storm knocked down power lines throughout the area. Near record high water rises were recorded around .  was temporarily isolated from the surrounding areas as the high winds from the storm knocked down power lines throughout the area.
355 new+york Several buildings along the coast and numerous boats sustained considerable damage. Several buildings along the coast and numerous boats sustained considerable damage.
356 new+york As far north as New Jersey, gale-force winds produced by the powerful extratropical storm caused significant damage and killed at least two people. As far north as  , gale-force winds produced by the powerful extratropical storm caused significant damage and killed at least  people.
357 new+york Large swells and high winds throughout New Jersey, southern New York and Connecticut resulted in significant damage. Large swells and high winds throughout  , southern   and  resulted in significant damage.
358 new+york Along the coast of Long Island, large waves resulted in severe beach erosion which threatened to undermine homes. Along the coast of  , large waves resulted in severe beach erosion which threatened to undermine homes.
359 new+york Parts of Coney Island were inundated by the increased surf, damaging homes and businesses. Parts of   were inundated by the increased surf, damaging homes and businesses.
360 new+york Several barges in nearby marinas were torn from their moorings and swept out to sea. Several barges in nearby marinas were torn from their moorings and swept out to sea.
361 new+york In Sandy Hook, several workmen were nearly killed after a building collapsed amidst high winds. In  , several workmen were nearly killed after a building collapsed amidst high winds.
362 new+york Minor precipitation was recorded throughout Rhode Island, peaking at . Minor precipitation was recorded throughout  , peaking at .
363 new+york Playing conditions were of no help. Playing conditions were of no help.
364 new+york The 1925 Series was postponed twice due to poor weather, and Game 7 was played in what soon became a steady downpour, described as "probably the worst conditions ever for a World Series game." The   was postponed twice due to poor weather, and Game  was played in what soon became a steady downpour, described as "probably the worst conditions ever for a   game."
365 new+york Senators outfielder Goose Goslin reported that the fog prevented him from clearly seeing the infield during the last three innings of the game, and claimed that the Series-winning hit was actually a foul ball. Senators outfielder   reported that the fog prevented him from clearly seeing the infield during the last  innings of the game, and claimed that the  hit was actually a foul ball.
366 new+york In the next day's New York Times, James Harrison wrote "In a grave of mud was buried Walter Johnson's amibition to join the select panel of pitchers who have won three victories in one World Series. In   's   ,   wrote "In a grave of mud was buried  's amibition to join  select panel of pitchers who have won  victories in   .
367 new+york With mud shackling his ankles and water running down his neck, the grand old man of baseball succumbed to weariness, a sore leg, wretched support and the most miserable weather conditions that ever confronted a pitcher." With mud shackling his ankles and water running down his neck, the grand old man of baseball succumbed to weariness, a sore leg, wretched support and the most miserable weather conditions that ever confronted a pitcher."
368 new+york Shipping ahead of the hurricane received repeated warnings broadcast by both the U.S. and Canadian weather officials. Shipping ahead of the hurricane received repeated warnings broadcast by both the  and  weather officials.
369 new+york Small craft warnings and a hurricane warning for New York City were also issued. Small craft warnings and a hurricane warning for    were also issued.
370 new+york However the majority of fishing vessels in Atlantic Canada in this period did not have radios, leaving the large fishing fleet on the offshore banks unaware of the approaching disaster. However the majority of fishing vessels in   in this period did not have radios, leaving the large fishing fleet on the offshore banks unaware of the approaching disaster.
371 new+york Because of the fast forward speed of the hurricane, the damage was minimal in New England. Because of the fast forward speed of the hurricane, the damage was minimal in  .
372 new+york However, the hurricane was devastating in Atlantic Canada as the storm caused tremendous damage and 184 deaths (mostly at sea). However, the hurricane was devastating in   as the storm caused tremendous damage and  deaths (mostly at sea).
373 new+york The hurricane's impact was the worst for Atlantic Canada in over a half a century. The hurricne's impct ws the worst for   in over  hlf  .
374 new+york Rainfall from the hurricane caused moderate flooding in New England. Rainfall from the hurricane caused moderate flooding in  .
375 new+york Most of the flooding occurred in central Massachusetts. Most of the flooding occurred in central .
376 new+york In Maine, dense fog was reported and rainfall up to 2 inches (50.8 mm) fell across the state. In , dense fog was reported and rainfall up to  inches ( mm) fell across the state.
377 new+york The rainfall caused isolated street flooding. The rainfall caused isolated street flooding.
378 new+york In Eastport, Maine a weather station reported a low pressure of 29.04 inches (983 millibars). In ,  a weather station reported a low pressure of  inches ( millibars).
379 new+york There were no fatalities and damage in Maine was minimal. There were no fatalities and damage in  was minimal.
380 new+york Offshore, the hurricane damaged a fishing ship leaving one dead and three injured. Offshore, the hurricane damaged a fishing ship leaving  dead and  injured.
381 new+york The most notable storm of the season was the Okeechobee Hurricane (or San Felipe Segundo Hurricane). The most notable storm of the season was the Okeechobee Hurricane (or San Felipe Segundo Hurricane).
382 new+york This Cape Verde-type hurricane was the second recorded hurricane to reach Category 5 intensity in the Atlantic basin. This   hurricane was the  recorded hurricane to reach Category  intensity in the  basin.
383 new+york After forming on September 6 and crossing the tropical Atlantic, it began strengthening rapidly as it crossed the Leeward Islands on September 12, killing hundreds in Guadeloupe. After forming on   and crossing the tropical , it began strengthening rapidly as it crossed the   on  , killing hundreds in .
384 new+york The storm, continuing to intensify, then made landfall on September 13 in Puerto Rico at its peak intensity as a devastating Category 5 hurricane, causing catastrophic damage and killing at least 300. The storm, continuing to intensify, then made landfall on   in   at its peak intensity as a devastating Category  hurricane, causing catastrophic damage and killing at least .
385 new+york The storm also caused numerous deaths elsewhere in the Caribbean and Bahamas before making landfall near West Palm Beach, Florida on September 16 as an intense Category 4 storm. The storm also caused numerous deaths elsewhere in the  and  before making landfall near   ,  on   as an intense Category  storm.
386 new+york Although damage was severe along coastal southeast Florida, relatively few deaths were reported in those areas; the storm's deadliest blow was on Lake Okeechobee as the eyewall crossed. Although damage was severe along coastal southeast , relatively few deaths were reported in those areas; the storm's deadliest blow was on   as the eyewall crossed.
387 new+york The muck dike surrounding portions of the lake's southern shores burst, resulting in a storm surge that caused massive flooding in many of the southern lake towns. The muck dike surrounding portions of the lake's southern shores burst, resulting in a storm surge that caused massive flooding in many of the southern lake towns.
388 new+york At least 2,500 people died in Florida in what is the United States’ second deadliest hurricane and second deadliest natural disaster. At least  people died in  in what is the  ’  deadliest hurricane and  deadliest natural disaster.
389 new+york The storm eventually ended its days as an extratropical storm over western New York that dissipated out over Lake Erie near Toronto. The storm eventually ended its  as an extratropical storm over western   that dissipated out over   near .
390 new+york The earthquake was centred on the edge of the Grand Banks of Newfoundland, about  south of the island. The earthquake was centred on the edge of the Grand Banks of , about  south of the island.
391 new+york It was felt as far away as New York and Montreal. It was felt as far away as   and .
392 new+york The quake, along two faults  south of the Burin Peninsula, triggered a large submarine landslide (). The quake, along  faults  south of the  , triggered a large submarine landslide ().
393 new+york It snapped 12 submarine transatlantic telegraph cables and led to a tsunami that arrived in three waves, each 3 to 4 metres high, that struck the coast at  about three hours after the earthquake occurred. It snapped  submarine transatlantic telegraph cables and led to a tsunami that arrived in  waves, each 3 to 4 metres high, that struck the coast at     after the earthquake occurred.
394 new+york The waves travelled at speeds up to  at the epicentre; they were recorded as far away as Portugal. The waves travelled at speeds up to  at the epicentre; they were recorded as far away as .
395 new+york Relief work in the Dominican Republic began immediately after the hurricane, personally organized by President Rafael Leónidas Trujillo. Relief work in the   began immediately after the hurricane, personally organized by President   .
396 new+york The president deployed the entire nation's military within 24 hours of the passage of the hurricane. The president deployed the entire nation's military within   of the passage of the hurricane.
397 new+york By the day after its passage, lack of food had become a problem, and large numbers of robberies had occurred. By   after its passage, lack of food had become a problem, and large numbers of robberies had occurred.
398 new+york The winds downed all communications inside of the city, leaving damage details unknown until communications were partially restored a day after its landfall. The winds downed ll communictions inside of the city, leving dmge detils unknown until communictions were prtilly restored  dy fter its lndfll.
399 new+york The city plant of the newspaper La Opinión was destroyed, with three staff members killed; the remaining workers transmitted a damage story to offices in New York City, and included a plea for disaster assistance. The city plant of the newspaper   was destroyed, with  staff members killed; the remaining workers transmitted a damage story to offices in   , and included a plea for disaster assistance.
400 new+york The Red Cross office in Washington, D.C. sent $15,000 (1930 USD) in aid a day after the hurricane struck. The   office in ,  sent $15,000 ( USD) in id  dy fter the hurricne struck.
401 new+york Weather stations in St. Croix and St. Thomas reported 60 mph (97 km/h) winds and barometric pressures ranging from 1000 to 1001 mbar (29.52 to 29.55 inHg). Weather stations in   and   reported  mph ( km/h) winds and barometric pressures ranging from    mbar (   inHg).
402 new+york The storm caused moderate damage in the Virgin Islands as heavy seas sank or heavily damaged small boats and ships in St. Thomas. The storm caused moderate damage in the   as heavy seas sank or heavily damaged small boats and ships in  .
403 new+york The New York Times reported that the hurricane killed 15 people in the Virgin Islands. The    reported that the hurricane killed  people in the  .
404 new+york The hurricane caused damage ranging from moderate to severe in the corridor between North Carolina and New Jersey, due to high tides and strong winds. The hurricane caused damage ranging from moderate to severe in the corridor between   and  , due to high tides and strong winds.
405 new+york In the state of Maryland, the storm's effects resulted in severe crop damage, and many boats and piers were damaged or destroyed due to high tides and storm surge. In the state of , the storm's effects resulted in severe crop damage, and many boats and piers were damaged or destroyed due to high tides and storm surge.
406 new+york The hurricane produced heavy rainfall along its path, with a peak of 13.28 inches (337.3 mm) in York, Pennsylvania. The hurricane produced heavy rainfall along its path, with a peak of  inches ( mm) in , .
407 new+york Overall, the hurricane caused $27 million in damage (1933 USD). Overall, the hurricane caused $27 million in damage ( USD).
408 new+york and 31 deaths. and  deaths.
409 new+york The storm caused severe damage in Tampico and further inland, leaving several thousand homeless. The storm caused severe damage in  and further inland, leaving several  homeless.
410 new+york According to "The New York Times", at least 67 people were killed. According to "The   ", at least  people were killed.
411 new+york Tuxpan, south of Tampico, also suffered heavy damage with many houses and office buildings destroyed. , south of , also suffered heavy damage with many houses and office buildings destroyed.
412 new+york Total property losses were estimated at several million dollars. Total property losses were estimated at several million dollars.
413 new+york A ship first reported a tropical depression near the Cape Verde islands on August 13. A ship  reported a tropical depression near the   islands on  .
414 new+york This system would become one of the most destructive hurricanes of the season. This system would become  of the most destructive hurricanes of the season.
415 new+york The storm moved towards the northwest and attained hurricane status on August 16. The storm moved towards the northwest and attained hurricane status on  .
416 new+york The hurricane continued to strengthen, and on August 21, it passed about 150 miles (240 km) southwest of Bermuda as a Category 3 hurricane. The hurricane continued to strengthen, and on  , it passed about  miles ( km) southwest of  as a Category  hurricane.
417 new+york St. George's avoided a direct hit but reported wind speeds of up to 64 mph (103 km/h). St. 's avoided a direct hit but reported wind speeds of up to  mph ( km/h).
418 new+york On August 22, the hurricane turned west-northwest and reached its peak intensity, with maximum sustained winds of 140 mph (220 km/h), equivalent to a Category 4 hurricane in the modern-day Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale. On  , the hurricane turned west-northwest and reached its peak intensity, with maximum sustained winds of  mph (0 km/h), equivalent to a Category  hurricane in the modern-day Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
419 new+york However, it weakened quickly afterwards. However, it weakened quickly afterwards.
420 new+york On August 23, the storm made landfall on the Outer Banks of North Carolina as a Category 1 hurricane and continued to quickly weaken as it moved inland, away from its energy source. On  , the storm made landfall on the      as a Category  hurricane and continued to quickly weaken as it moved inland, away from its energy source.
421 new+york The storm turned to the north, then to the northeast, passing through Virginia, Maryland, and Pennsylvania before weakening to a tropical depression over New York. The storm turned to the north, then to the northeast, passing through , , and  before weakening to a tropical depression over  .
422 new+york The storm became extratropical on August 25 and turned to the east, moving through Atlantic Canada and dissipating on August 28. The storm became extratropical on   and turned to the east, moving through   and dissipating on  .
423 new+york In the beach towns of Clinton, Westbrook, and Old Saybrook, buildings were found as wreckage across coastal roads. In the beach towns of , , and  , buildings were found as wreckage across coastal roads.
424 new+york Actress Katharine Hepburn waded to safety from her Old Saybrook beach home, narrowly escaping death. Actress   waded to safety from her   beach home, narrowly escaping death.
425 new+york She stated in her 1991 book that 95% of her personal belongings were either lost or destroyed, including her 1932 Oscar which was later found intact. She stated in her  book that 95% of her personal belongings were either lost or destroyed, including her  Oscar which was later found intact.
426 new+york In Old Lyme, beach cottages were flattened or swept away. In Old Lyme, beach cottages were flattened or swept away.
427 new+york At Stonington a New York, New Haven & Hartford passenger train was stranded on a causeway; along the Stonington shorefront, buildings were swept off their foundations and found two miles (3 km) inland. At  a  ,     passenger train was stranded on a causeway; along the  shorefront, buildings were swept off their foundations and found  miles ( km) inland.
428 new+york Rescuers later searching for survivors in the homes in Mystic found live fish and crabs in kitchen drawers and cabinets. Rescuers later searching for survivors in the homes in Mystic found live fish and crabs in kitchen drawers and cabinets.
429 new+york New York City received a glancing blow from the hurricane. received a glancing blow from the hurricane.
430 new+york Wind gusts up to 75 m.p.h. Wind gusts up to  m.p.h.
431 new+york blew throughout Manhattan causing the East River to flow three blocks inland. blew throughout  causing the   to flow  blocks inland.
432 new+york The wind reportedly caused the Empire State Building to sway. The wind reportedly caused the Empire State Building to sway.
433 new+york Brooklyn, Queens, and Nassau counties, located on the western end of Long Island, were hammered with wind gusts in excess of 100 m.p.h., but escaped the worst of the wind and storm surge due to being on the storm's weaker west side. , , and  counties, located on the western end of  , were hammered with wind gusts in excess of  m.p.h., but escaped the worst of the wind and storm surge due to being on the storm's weaker west side.
434 new+york Power was lost throughout the city. Power was lost throughout the city.
435 new+york In total, 4,500 cottages, farms, and other homes were reported destroyed. In total,  cottages, farms, and other homes were reported destroyed.
436 new+york An additional 25,000 homes were damaged. An additional  homes were damaged.
437 new+york Other damages included 26,000 automobiles destroyed, and 20,000 electrical poles toppled. Other damages included  automobiles destroyed, and  electrical poles toppled.
438 new+york The hurricane also devastated the forests of the Northeast, knocking down an estimated 2 billion trees in New York and New England. The hurricane also devastated the forests of the Northeast, knocking down an estimated   trees in   and  .
439 new+york Freshwater flooding was minimal, however, as the quick passage of the storm decreased local rainfall totals, with only a few small areas receiving over 10 inches (250 mm). Freshwater flooding was minimal, however, as the quick passage of the storm decreased local rainfall totals, with only a few small areas receiving over  inches ( mm).
440 new+york The years spanning 1893 to 1938 saw much demographic change in the Northeast as large influxes of European immigrants settled in cities and towns throughout New York and New England, many of whom knew little, if anything, about hurricanes. spanning  to  saw much demographic change in the  as large influxes of  immigrants settled in cities and towns throughout   and  , many of whom knew little, if anything, about hurricanes.
441 new+york Most people at the time associated hurricanes with the warmer tropical regions off the Gulf Coast and southern North Atlantic waters off the Florida coastline, and not the colder Atlantic waters off New York and New England. Most people at the time associated hurricanes with the warmer tropical regions off the   and southern   waters off the  coastline, and not the colder  waters off   and  .
442 new+york The only tropical storms to affect the area in recent years had been weak remnant storms. The only tropical storms to affect the area in   had been weak remnant storms.
443 new+york A more common weather phenomenon was a noreaster, which is a powerful low-pressure storm common in the Northeast during fall and winter. A more common weather phenomenon was a noreaster, which is a powerful low-pressure storm common in the Northeast during  and .
444 new+york Although Noreasters can produce winds that are similar to those in hurricanes, they do not produce the storm surge that proved to be the 1938 storm's greatest killer. Although Noreasters can produce winds that are similar to those in hurricanes, they do not produce the storm surge that proved to be the  storm's greatest killer.
445 new+york By 1938, most of the earlier storms were hardly remembered. By , most of the earlier storms were hardly remembered.
446 new+york The storm was first spotted south of the Cape Verde Islands on September 10. The storm was  spotted south of the    on  .
447 new+york Over the next ten days, it steadily gathered strength and slowly tracked to the west-northwest. Over    , it steadily gared strength and slowly tracked to  west-northwest.
448 new+york By September 20, while centered east of the Bahamas, the hurricane is estimated to have reached Category 5 intensity. By  , while centered east of the , the hurricane is estimated to have reached Category  intensity.
449 new+york In response to a deep trough over Appalachia, the hurricane veered northward, sparing the Bahamas, Florida, the Carolinas, and the Mid-Atlantic. In response to a deep trough over , the hurricane veered northward, sparing the , , the , and the .
450 new+york At the same time, a high pressure system was centered north of Bermuda, preventing the hurricane from making an eastward turn out to sea. At the same time, a high pressure system was centered north of , preventing the hurricane from making an eastward turn out to sea.
451 new+york Thus, the hurricane was effectively squeezed to the north between the two weather systems. Thus, the hurricane was effectively squeezed to the north between the  weather systems.
452 new+york This conclusion was not reached merely with the wisdom of hindsight. This conclusion was not reached merely with the wisdom of hindsight.
453 new+york As described by Scott Mandia, professor of physical sciences, State University of New York, in an article on this hurricane, there was a lone voice in the wilderness of the New York meteorological offices crying out a warning of hurricane for Long Island. As described by  , pressor  physical sciences,     , in an article on this hurricane, there was a lone voice in the wilderness  the   meteorological fices crying out a warning  hurricane for  .
454 new+york In Professor Mandia's words, "Charlie Pierce, a young research forecaster for the Bureau concluded that the storm would not continue to move northeast and curve out to sea but would instead track due north. In Professor 's words, " , a young research forecaster for the  concluded that the storm would not continue to move northeast and curve out to sea but would instead track due north.
455 new+york He was overruled by more senior meteorologists and the official forecast was for cloudy skies and gusty conditions – but no hurricane (Francis, 1998). He was overruled by more senior meteorologists and the official forecast was for cloudy skies and gusty conditions – but no hurricane (, ).
456 new+york Because the official forecast was not cause for alarm, even as the winds picked up speed and the waves rolled in, nobody realized that a catastrophe was only a few hours away." Becuse the officil forecst ws not cuse for lrm, even s the winds picked up speed nd the wves rolled in, nobody relized tht  ctstrophe ws only    wy."
457 new+york Late on September 20, this set-up caused the storm's forward speed to increase substantially. Late on  , this set-up caused the storm's forward speed to increase substantially.
458 new+york In fact, the forward speed of the hurricane would ultimately reach 70 mph, the highest forward velocity ever recorded in the annals of hurricanes. In fact, the forward speed of the hurricane would ultimately reach  mph, the highest forward velocity ever recorded in the annals of hurricanes.
459 new+york This extreme forward motion, being in the same general direction as the winds on the eastern side of the storm as it proceeded north, caused the perceived wind speed in areas east of the eye to be far higher than would be the case with a hurricane of more typical forward speed. This extreme forward motion, being in the same general direction as the winds on the eastern side of the storm as it proceeded north, caused the perceived wind speed in areas east of the eye to be far higher than would be the case with a hurricane of more typical forward speed.
460 new+york (Winds rotate counter-clockwise around all low pressure systems in the Northern hemisphere, thus winds on the right side of a hurricane--"right" being relative to the direction of motion of the storm itself—are moving in the same general direction as the hurricane. (Winds rotate counter-clockwise around all low pressure systems in the Northern hemisphere, thus winds on the right side of a hurricane--"right" being relative to the direction of motion of the storm itself—are moving in the same general direction as the hurricane.
461 new+york Therefore, the forward motion increases the observed wind speed for points to the right of the eye of the hurricane and decreases the observed wind speed for points to the left of the eye, but in a complex way that defies crude addition or subtraction of the forward motion from the "intrinsic" wind speed of the hurricane.) Therefore, the forward motion increases the observed wind speed for points to the right of the eye of the hurricane and decreases the observed wind speed for points to the left of the eye, but in a complex way that defies crude addition or subtraction of the forward motion from the "intrinsic" wind speed of the hurricane.)
462 new+york During the early hours of September 21, the storm, centered several hundred miles to the southeast of Cape Hatteras, weakened slightly. During      ,  storm, centered several  miles to  souast   , weakened slightly.
463 new+york By 8:30 am EST, the hurricane was centered approximately  due east of Cape Hatteras, and its forward speed had increased to well over 50 m.p.h. By 8:30 am EST, the hurricane was centered approximately  due east of  , and its forward speed had increased to well over  m.p.h.
464 new+york This rapid movement did not give the hurricane a sufficient amount of time to weaken over the cooler waters before it reached Long Island. This rapid movement did not give the hurricane a sufficient amount of time to weaken over the cooler waters before it reached  .
465 new+york During the 9:00 am EST hour, the hurricane sped through the Virginia tidewater. During the 9:00 am EST , the hurricane sped through the  tidewater.
466 new+york Between 12:00 pm and 2:00 pm EST, the New Jersey coastline and New York City caught the western edge of the hurricane. Between 12:00 pm and 2:00 pm EST, the   coastline and    caught the western edge of the hurricane.
467 new+york At the same time, weather conditions began to deteriorate rapidly on Long Island as well as along the southern New England coast. At the same time, weather conditions began to deteriorate rapidly on   as well as along the southern   coast.
468 new+york The full force of the hurricane started to reach Long Island after 2:30 pm EST, and the eye made landfall at Bayport in Suffolk County shortly after 3:00 pm EST. The full force of the hurricane started to reach   after 2:30 pm EST, and the eye made landfall at  in   shortly after 3:00 pm EST.
469 new+york By 4:00 pm EST, the eye had crossed Long Island Sound and was making a second landfall just east of New Haven, Connecticut. By 4:00 pm EST, the eye hd crossed Long Islnd Sound nd ws mking   lndfll just est of  Hven, .
470 new+york On August 7, a tropical storm formed north of the Leeward Islands, likely from a tropical wave. On  , a tropical storm formed north of the  , likely from a tropical wave.
471 new+york It tracked to the west-northwest, slowly strengthening to a hurricane as it moved through the Bahamas on August 11. It tracked to the west-northwest, slowly strengthening to a hurricane as it moved through the  on  .
472 new+york Later that day, it met the east coast of Florida, and crossed the state in around 15 hours. Later that , it met the east coast of , and crossed the state in around  .
473 new+york After weakening to a tropical storm, it quickly re-strengthened upon emerging into the Gulf of Mexico, and made another landfall near Apalachicola, Florida, on August 13. After weakening to a tropical storm, it quickly re-strengthened upon emerging into the Gulf of , and made another landfall near , , on  .
474 new+york Over land, the cyclone slowed considerably and quickly deteriorated. Over land, the cyclone slowed considerably and quickly deteriorated.
475 new+york By August 14, the storm had weakened to a tropical depression as it drifted through Alabama. By  , the storm had weakened to a tropical depression as it drifted through .
476 new+york The depression turned to the northeast, and remained a tropical depression until it dissipated over New York on August 20. The depression turned to the northeast, and remained a tropical depression until it dissipated over   on  .
477 new+york Due to timely reports and warnings, the storm was reportedly forecast with "exceptional accuracy". Due to timely reports and warnings, the storm was reportedly forecast with "exceptional accuracy".
478 new+york Numerous ships encountered the hurricane along its course. Numerous ships encountered the hurricane along its course.
479 new+york On the "President Harding", en route to New York, one crew member drowned due to the rough conditions and 73 crew and passengers suffered injury, of various severity, requiring a call for emergency medical supplies. On the "President Harding", en route to  ,  crew member drowned due to the rough conditions and  crew and passengers suffered injury, of various severity, requiring a call for emergency medical supplies.
480 new+york The ship itself sustained a bit of damage. The ship itself sustained a bit of damage.
481 new+york As the storm passed near the island of Bermuda, it generated strong winds—gusting to —and heavy precipitation. As the storm passed near the island of , it generated strong winds—gusting to —and heavy precipitation.
482 new+york Damage was fairly significant; the winds uprooted trees, shattered windows, and disrupted public utilities. Damage was fairly significant; the winds uprooted trees, shattered windows, and disrupted public utilities.
483 new+york Early on September 18, squally weather was reported throughout the Atlantic coast of Florida, with indications that a circulation center was present  offshore. Early on  , squally weather was reported throughout the  coast of , with indications that a circulation center was   offshore.
484 new+york It is estimated that a tropical storm had formed at around this time. It is estimated that a tropical storm had formed at around this time.
485 new+york The cyclone began to intensity as it briefly moved northeastward, before abruptly executing an eastward turn. The cyclone began to intensity as it briefly moved northeastward, before abruptly executing an eastward turn.
486 new+york It attained Category 1 hurricane status on September 19, and completed a clockwise loop the next day. It attained Category  hurricane status on  9, and completed a clockwise loop   .
487 new+york It then tracked northwestward toward North Carolina, but began to recurve away from land late on September 22. It then tracked northwestward toward  , but began to recurve away from land late on  .
488 new+york It weakened into a tropical storm shortly afterward. It weakened into a tropical storm shortly afterward.
489 new+york The system dissipated on September 25 to the south of Nova Scotia. The system dissipated on   to the south of  .
490 new+york The storm had little or no effect on land, but caused significant delays for North Atlantic shipping. The storm had little or no effect on land, but caused significant delays for   shipping.
491 new+york One vessel en route from Curaçao to New York encountered the storm on two separate occasions, recording Force 8 winds on the Beaufort scale both times. vessel en route from Curaçao to   encountered the storm on  separate occasions, recording Force  winds on the  scale both times.
492 new+york The most damage was caused when the storm was its most intense, over the eastern suburbs of the city. The most damage was caused when the storm was its most intense, over the eastern suburbs of the city.
493 new+york According to the Bureau of Meteorology, over 5000 roofs were damaged in Waverley by the lumps of hail which weighed up to . According to the   , over  ros were damaged in  by the lumps  hail which weighed up to .
494 new+york No official cost total exists for the amount of damage caused by the 1947 hailstorm, however a Reuters article published in "New York Times" on 2 January estimated preliminary damage to be worth around US$3 million, equivalent to GB£750,000. No official cost total exists for the amount of damage caused by the  hailstorm, however a  article published in "New York Times" on   estimated preliminary damage to be worth around US$3 million, equivalent to GB£750,000.
495 new+york This is approximately equal to A$45 million in modern figures, placing it well below the costliest natural disasters in Australian history; this, given the severity of the storm cell, is attributable mainly to the relative inexpensiveness of buildings and other items of the era. This is approximately equal to A$45 million in modern figures, placing it well below the costliest natural disasters in  history; this, given the severity of the storm cell, is attributable mainly to the relative inexpensiveness of buildings and other items of the era.
496 new+york More definite historical accounts exist for damage caused to certain buildings. More definite historical accounts exist for damage caused to certain buildings.
497 new+york The historic skylight which runs through the centre of the main Central railway station building was smashed, and the shards reportedly fell in sizes up to  on around 100 waiting passengers. The historic skylight which runs through the centre of the main Central railway station building was smashed, and the shards reportedly fell in sizes up to  on around  waiting passengers.
498 new+york The smog first rolled into Donora on October 27, 1948. The smog  rolled into  on   .
499 new+york By the following day it was causing coughing and other signs of respiratory distress for many residents of the community in the Monongahela River valley. By    it was causing coughing and or signs of respiratory distress for many residents of  community in    valley.
500 new+york Many of the illnesses and deaths were initially attributed to asthma. Many of the illnesses and deaths were initially attributed to asthma.
501 new+york The smog continued until it rained on October 31, by which time 20 residents of Donora had died and approximately a third to one half of the town's population of 14,000 residents had been sickened. The smog continued until it rained on  , by which time  residents of  had died and approximately a  to  half of the town's population of  residents had been sickened.
502 new+york Sixty years later, the incident was described by "The New York Times" as "one of the worst air pollution disasters in the nation's history". , the incident was described by "The   " as " of the worst air pollution disasters in the nation's history".
503 new+york Even ten years after the incident, mortality rates in Donora were significantly higher than those in other communities nearby. Even   after the incident, mortality rates in  were significantly higher than those in other communities nearby.
504 new+york The cyclone inflicted heavy citrus losses, and one-third of the trees were uprooted in many groves. The cyclone inflicted heavy citrus losses, and  of the trees were uprooted in many groves.
505 new+york Agricultural losses reached $20 million (1949 USD), including 14 million boxes of fruit. Agricultural losses reached $20  ( USD), including   boxes of fruit.
506 new+york Wind gusts of 75 mph (120 km/h) affected Clermont, and numerous central Florida communities reported severe damage from the winds. Wind gusts of  mph ( km/h) affected , and numerous central  communities reported severe damage from the winds.
507 new+york The observation station at Archbold Biological Station reported peak wind gusts of 110 mph (175 km/h); the town of Sebring reported 125 mph (205 km/h) gusts, which caused damage to trees and severe structural damage to buildings. The observation station at    reported peak wind gusts of  mph ( km/h); the town of Sebring reported  mph ( km/h) gusts, which caused damage to trees and severe structural damage to buildings.
508 new+york Estimations of property damage reached $100,000 (1949 USD) in the town, and local citrus groves estimated losses near $2,000,000 (1949 USD). Estimations of property damage reached $100,000 ( USD) in the town, and local citrus groves estimated losses near $2,000,000 ( USD).
509 new+york Buildings received considerable damage in the Lake Placid area, and telegraph, telephone, rail, and bus services were disrupted. Buildings received considerable damage in the   area, and telegraph, telephone, rail, and bus services were disrupted.
510 new+york Flooding affected Georgia and the Carolinas, although the rains alleviated drought conditions in Maryland, Pennsylvania, New York, and New England. Flooding affected  and the , although the rains alleviated drought conditions in , ,  , and  .
511 new+york Charleston, South Carolina reported a wind gust of 80 mph (129 km/h), and power lines were damaged. ,   reported a wind gust of  mph ( km/h), and power lines were damaged.
512 new+york In Maryland, damage was minimal, although trees were prostrated and electrical services were down. In , damage was minimal, although trees were prostrated and electrical services were down.
513 new+york Two people were killed in Florida, but advance warnings prevented a higher death toll. people were killed in , but advance warnings prevented a higher death toll.
514 new+york Along the coast of North Carolina, the hurricane produced light winds and rough waves, as well as moderate precipitation. Along the coast of  , the hurricane produced light winds and rough waves, as well as moderate precipitation.
515 new+york Heavier rainfall occurred in southern New England, causing flooding in portions of New York City and producing slick roads that caused nine traffic fatalities. Heavier rainfall occurred in southern  , causing flooding in portions of    and producing slick roads that caused  traffic fatalities.
516 new+york Able produced hurricane-force winds in Nova Scotia, and damage across Canada totaled over $1 million (1950 CAD, $  USD) in the agriculture, communications, and fishing industries. Able produced hurricane-force winds in  , and damage across  totaled over $1 million ( CAD, $  USD) in the agriculture, communications, and fishing industries.
517 new+york Two people died in Canada when their raft was overturned. people died in  when their raft was overturned.
518 new+york Especially heavy rainfall occurred over the southwest of New South Wales (extending into most of Victoria) during February, but it was in March, normally at the end of the wet season, that the heaviest rainfall occurred. Especially heavy rainfall occurred over the southwest of    (extending into most of ) during , but it was in , normally at the end of the wet season, that the heaviest rainfall occurred.
519 new+york The monsoon trough, which is normally situated around Cape York Peninsula, moved to a latitude near Boulia. The monsoon trough, which is normally situated around   , moved to a latitude near .
520 new+york At the beginning of that month some of the worst flooding on record occurred over the Barron and Herbert Rivers, and with a major tropical cyclone following the contour of the Queensland coast for over a week from 4 to 11 March and then moving inland, the heavy rain extended deep into the interior of Queensland and even to that part of South Australia northeast of the Flinders Ranges. At the beginning of tht  some of the worst flooding on record occurred over the  nd  , nd with  mjor tropicl cyclone following the contour of the  cost for over   from  to  Mrch nd then moving inlnd, the hevy rin extended deep into the interior of  nd even to tht prt of  Austrli northest of the Flinders Rnges.
521 new+york The flood on the Diamantina River was measured as the highest ever recorded, and Windorah on the lower Cooper recorded for the entire month , which is about 145 percent of its mean annual rainfall. The flood on    was measured as  highest ever recorded, and  on  lower  recorded for    , which is about 145 percent of its mean annual rainfall.
522 new+york Most pastoral areas were described as having a "superabundance of feed" and losses of sheep in the Lake Eyre Basin due to blowfly strike were as serious as experienced in the frequent droughts characteristic of the basin's extraordinarily variable climate. Most pastoral areas were described as having a "superabundance of feed" and losses of sheep in the    due to blowfly strike were as serious as experienced in the frequent droughts characteristic of the basin's extraordinarily variable climate.
523 new+york Overnight, the cold air mass, along with a cold front, moved eastward into New York and the New England area. Overnight, the cold air mass, along with a cold front, moved eastward into   and the   area.
524 new+york In the days before the storm, the New England region was experiencing significant heat, with a high culminating at 90 °F (32 °C) on June 6. In   before  storm,    region was experiencing significant heat, with a high culminating at  F ( C) on  .
525 new+york However, the cold air mass, an unusually strong one, lowered temperatures across the region. However, the cold air mass, an unusually strong , lowered temperatures across the region.
526 new+york The temperature in Worcester dropped over 15 degrees to 74 °F (24 °C) on June 8. The temperature in  dropped over  degrees to  F ( C) on  .
527 new+york The presence of the air mass created the chance for warm air from the Southern United States to clash with the cold front. The presence of the air mass created the chance for warm air from the    to clash with the cold front.
528 new+york This phenomenon, which is the way most tornadoes and severe thunderstorms are formed, is something that would not normally happen in the New England region. This phenomenon, which is the way most tornadoes and severe thunderstorms are formed, is something that would not normally happen in the   region.
529 new+york Rain fell across Worcester County throughout the day on June 9. Rain fell across   throughout   on  .
530 new+york In New York, a strong cluster of thunderstorms began to build, moving eastward into Massachusetts. In  , a strong cluster of thunderstorms began to build, moving eastward into .
531 new+york At approximately 4:25 pm (EST), a funnel cloud formed near the Quabbin Reservoir near New Salem. At approximately 4:25 pm (EST), a funnel cloud formed near the Quabbin Reservoir near  .
532 new+york Very soon after, a tornado spawned from the funnel cloud, touching down in a forest outside of the rural community of Petersham. Very soon after, a tornado spawned from the funnel cloud, touching down in a forest outside of the rural community of .
533 new+york The tornado then proceeded to pass through a farm field, where it struck a farmhouse and killed two people. The tornado then proceeded to pass through a farm field, where it struck a farmhouse and killed  people.
534 new+york As the storm moved eastward at approximately 35 mph (58 km/h), it hit the towns of Rutland and Holden, where 11 people were killed in total. As the storm moved eastward at approximately  mph ( km/h), it hit the towns of  and , where  people were killed in total.
535 new+york Hazel formed on October 5 just east of the Windward Islands and intensified into a major hurricane while crossing the Caribbean Sea. formed on   just east of the   and intensified into a major hurricane while crossing the  .
536 new+york In Haiti, Hazel destroyed 40% of the coffee trees and 50% of the cacao crop, affecting the economy for several years to come. In ,  destroyed 40% of the coffee trees and 50% of the cacao crop, affecting the economy for   to come.
537 new+york The hurricane made landfall in the Carolinas, and destroyed most waterfront dwellings near its point of impact. The hurricane made landfall in the , and destroyed most waterfront dwellings near its point of impact.
538 new+york It affected several more states, including Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and West Virginia, bringing gusts near 100 mph (160 km/h) and causing $308 million (1954 USD) in damage. It affected several more states, including , ,  ,  , , , and  , bringing gusts near  mph ( km/h) and causing $308 million ( USD) in damage.
539 new+york Only 29 horses ran in the race, the fewest since 1935 when 27 ran. Only  horses ran in the race, the fewest since  when  ran.
540 new+york The 1954 running saw four equine fatalities during the race; this remains the only Grand National renewal to have yielded four fatalities. The  running saw  equine fatalities during the race; this remains the only   renewal to have yielded  fatalities.
541 new+york Dominick's Bar dropped dead jumping the second fence; Paris New York incurred a cervical fracture at the fourth. 's Bar dropped dead jumping the  fence;    incurred a cervical fracture at the .
542 new+york Legal Joy, who finished second two years previously, broke a leg at the 13th and had to be euthanised, while Coneyburrow was injured at the 28th and also had to be put down. , who finished    , broke a leg at the  and had to be euthanised, while  was injured at the  and also had to be put down.
543 new+york The two latter fatalities remain the only ones ever recorded at the 13th and 28th fences in the Grand National. The  latter fatalities remain the only ones ever recorded at the    fences in the Gr .
544 new+york Hurricane Donna was the most destructive hurricane of the season. Hurricane  was the most destructive hurricane of the season.
545 new+york After reaching Category 5 strength in the open ocean in early September, it passed north of the Greater Antilles as a Category 4. Donna hit the Florida Keys, Fort Myers, Florida, the Outer Banks, and finally Long Island, New York, on September 12. Donna caused $400 million in damage (1960 dollars), and caused 364 deaths, of which 148 were directly caused by the storm. After reaching Category  strength in the open ocean in  , it passed north of the Greater Antilles as a Category . hit the  ,  , , the Outer Banks, and finally  ,  , on  . caused $400 million in damage ( dollars), and caused  deaths, of which  were directly caused by the storm.
546 new+york The "1960 New York air disaster", also known as the "Park Slope Plane Crash", was a mid-air collision between two airliners that occurred over New York City on Friday, December 16, 1960. The "   air disaster" also known as the "Park Slope Plane Crash" was a mid-air collision between  airliners that occurred over    on    .
547 new+york The collision of United Airlines Flight 826 and Trans World Airlines Flight 266, caused Flight 266 to crash into Staten Island and Flight 826 to crash into Park Slope, Brooklyn, resulting in the death of all 128 people on board the two airliners, along with an additional six people on the ground. The collision of   Flight  and    Flight , caused Flight  to crash into   and Flight  to crash into Park Slope, , resulting in the death of all  people on board the  airliners, along with an additional  people on the ground.
548 new+york Peace was restored after three days, and only after Governor Nelson Rockefeller called out the New York National Guard, the first such use of troops in a northern city. Peace was restored after  , and only after Governor   called out the    , the  such use of troops in a northern city.
549 new+york By the time the disturbance was over, four were dead (three in a helicopter crash) and 350 injured. By the time the disturbance was over,  were dead ( in a helicopter crash) and  injured.
550 new+york Almost a thousand people were arrested and 204 stores were either looted or damaged. Almost a  people were arrested and  stores were either looted or damaged.
551 new+york The most significant storm of the season was Hurricane Agnes, which at the time was among the ten costliest United States hurricanes. The most significant storm of the season was Hurricane , which at the time was among the  costliest   hurricanes.
552 new+york After brushing the western tip of Cuba, the hurricane made landfall on the Florida Panhandle. After brushing the western tip of , the hurricane made landfall on the  .
553 new+york It caused at least $2.1 billion (1972 USD) in damage and 128 fatalities, mostly from inland flooding in Pennsylvania and New York. It caused at least $2.1 billion ( USD) in damage and  fatalities, mostly from inland flooding in  and  .
554 new+york The strongest hurricane of the season was Betty, which reached peak winds of 105 mph (165 km/h) while west of the Azores. The strongest hurricane of the season was , which reached peak winds of  mph ( km/h) while west of the .
555 new+york Tropical Storm Carrie passed just offshore of Massachusetts, causing heavy rainfall, resulting in four fatalities, but only $1.78 million (1972 USD) in damage. Tropical Storm  passed just offshore of , causing heavy rainfall, resulting in  fatalities, but only $1.78 million ( USD) in damage.
556 new+york A polar front and an upper trough over the Yucatán Peninsula and eventually spawned a tropical depression by June 14. A polar front and an upper trough over the   and eventually spawned a tropical depression by  .
557 new+york The storm emerged into the western Caribbean Sea on June 15, and by the following day, it strengthened Tropical Storm Agnes. The storm emerged into  western   on  , and by   , it strengned Tropical Storm Agnes.
558 new+york The storm curved northward and brushed western Cuba on June 17. The storm curved northward and brushed western  on  .
559 new+york Agnes continued to intensify, and on June 18, it was upgraded to a hurricane. continued to intensify, and on  , it was upgraded to a hurricane.
560 new+york Minimal fluctuations in intensity occurred before the storm made landfall near Panama City, Florida on June 19. Minimal fluctuations in intensity occurred before the storm made landfall near  ,  on  .
561 new+york After moving inland, Agnes rapidly weakened and was only a tropical depression when it entered Georgia. After moving inland,  rapidly weakened and was only a tropical depression when it entered .
562 new+york Thereafter, weakening slowed as the storm crossed over Georgia and into South Carolina. Thereafter, weakening slowed as the storm crossed over  and into  .
563 new+york However, while over eastern North Carolina on June 21, Agnes re-strengthened into a tropical storm, as a result of baroclinic activity. However, while over eastern   on  ,  re-strengthened into a tropical storm, as a result of baroclinic activity.
564 new+york Early the following day, the storm emerged into the Atlantic Ocean before re-curving northwestward and making landfall near New York City as a strong tropical storm. ,  storm emerged into    before re-curving northwestward and making landfall near    as a strong tropical storm.
565 new+york Agnes quickly merged with a non-tropical low pressure system on June 23. quickly merged with a non-tropical low pressure system on  .
566 new+york A tropical depression formed in the southern Gulf of Mexico on October 14. A tropical depression formed in the southern    on  .
567 new+york Rounding the western periphery of the subtropical ridge, the depression strengthened while moving northeast towards the central Gulf coast ahead of an advancing cold front. Rounding the western periphery of the subtropical ridge, the depression strengthened while moving northeast towards the central Gulf coast ahead of an advancing cold front.
568 new+york Moving inland late on October 16, the depression became an extratropical cyclone as it through the Southeast and Mid-Atlantic states, before moving offshore New England. Moving inland late on  , the depression became an extratropical cyclone as it through the Southeast and  states, before moving offshore  .
569 new+york Heavy rains fell along the frontal boundary ahead of the system, leading to flooding across eastern Louisiana, central Mississippi, the western Florida panhandle, central Tennessee, western Virginia, and eastern New York. Heavy rains fell along the frontal boundary ahead of the system, leading to flooding across eastern , central , the western  panhandle, central , western , and eastern  .
570 new+york Hurricane Belle was a major hurricane that threatened much of the East Coast of the United States. was a major hurricane that threatened much of the East Coast of the  .
571 new+york It made landfall in Long Island, New York as a tropical storm, causing $100 million in damage (1976 USD) and five casualties. It made landfall in  ,   as a tropical storm, causing $100 million in damage ( USD) and  casualties.
572 new+york The "1976 Atlantic hurricane season" was an average Atlantic hurricane season, officially starting on June 1, 1976 and ending on November 30, dates which conventionally limit the period of each year when most tropical cyclones develop in the Atlantic Ocean. The "  hurricane season" was an average  hurricane season officially starting on    and ending on   dates which conventionally limit the period of each year when most tropical cyclones develop in the  .
573 new+york The season produced 23 tropical cyclones, of which ten developed into named storms; six became hurricanes, and two attained major hurricane status. The season produced  tropical cyclones, of which  developed into named storms;  became hurricanes, and  attained major hurricane status.
574 new+york The strongest hurricane of the season was Hurricane Belle, which reached Category 3 status on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale east of North Carolina; Belle later struck Long Island, New York as a Category 1 hurricane, causing $100 million in damage (1976 USD) and a total of five deaths across the New England region of the United States. The strongest hurricane of the season was Hurricane , which reached Category  status on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale east of  ;  later struck  ,   as a Category  hurricane, causing $00 million in damage (976 USD) and a total of  deaths across the   region of the  .
575 new+york Initially the police did not consider the fire suspicious. Initially the police did not consider the fire suspicious.
576 new+york An expert fire investigator was brought in from New York City to assist with the investigation. An expert fire investigator was brought in from    to assist with the investigation.
577 new+york He discovered that an uncommon highly flammable accelerent was used to start the fire in the form of a liquid which was ignited inside a storage cupboard under the first floor stairwell. He discovered that an uncommon highly flammable accelerent was used to start the fire in the form of a liquid which was ignited inside a storage cupboard under the  floor stairwell.
578 new+york The fire was officially ruled as an arson attack. The fire was officially ruled as an arson attack.
579 new+york No one was ever charged with this crime. No  was ever charged with this crime.
580 new+york The case remains open today. The case remains open .
581 new+york In early 2011, the Greece Police Department launched the most intensive investigation of the fire in the last thirty years. In  ,     launched  most intensive investigation of  fire in    .
582 new+york The "1978 Holiday Inn Fire" broke out at the Holiday Inn-Northwest which was located at 1525 West Ridge Road in the Town of Greece, near Rochester, New York on November 26, 1978 and killed ten people. The "  Inn Fire" broke out at the   which was located at     in the Town of  near    on    and killed  people.
583 new+york Seven of the fatalities were Canadian; 88 Canadians were staying in the hotel at the time on a holiday shopping trip. of the fatalities were ;  s were staying in the hotel at the time on a holiday shopping trip.
584 new+york The fire was considered notable enough by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) and The Center for Fire Research to document the fire in their 1979 publications. The fire was considered notable enough by the     () and The Center for  Research to document the fire in their  publications.
585 new+york In the end 10 people were killed and 34 injured. In the end  people were killed and  injured.
586 new+york In 2008, the NFPA listed the 1978 Holiday Inn Fire as one of only three dozen or so fires which killed 10 or more people in the United States between 1934 and 2006. In , the  listed the  Holiday Inn Fire as  of only   or so fires which killed  or more people in the   between   .
587 new+york Rain fell heavily in the Mallee later in the month, making it a record wet month in may parts of western Victoria and far western New South Wales. Ra fell heavily    later   , makg it a record wet    parts of western  and far western   .
588 new+york The southeast corner, however, was already very dry. The southeast corner, however, was already very dry.
589 new+york February and March saw a continuing powerful monsoon, but except for the Mallee in February and the east coast from Newcastle to Triabunna in March, southeastern Australia was dry. and  saw a continuing powerful monsoon, but except for the  in  and the east coast from  to  in , southeastern  was dry.
590 new+york April had fairly normal rainfall except for continuing wet in Cape York Peninsula and dry conditions around Sydney and Hobart, where already rainfall deficiencies were acute. had fairly normal rainfall except for continuing wet in    and dry conditions around  and , where already rainfall deficiencies were acute.
591 new+york Severe Tropical Cyclone Kathy was a powerful tropical cyclone that devastated the Sir Edward Pellew Group of Islands in March 1984. Severe Tropical Cyclone  was a powerful tropical cyclone that devastated the Sir      in  .
592 new+york Originating from a tropical low off the southern coast of Papua New Guinea. Originating from a tropical low off the southern coast of   .
593 new+york Tracking westward, the system attained gale-force winds by 18 March before striking the Cape York Peninsula. Tracking westward, the system attained gale-force winds by    striking the   .
594 new+york After crossing the area, Kathy entered the Gulf of Carpentaria where environmental conditions favoured significant development. After crossing the area,  entered the    where environmental conditions favoured significant development.
595 new+york On 22 March, the storm attained its peak intensity as a Category 5 severe tropical cyclone (Australian tropical cyclone intensity scale) with ten-minute sustained winds of 205 km/h (125 mph). On  , the storm attained its peak intensity as a Category  severe tropical cyclone ( tropical cyclone intensity scale) with  sustained winds of 20 km/h (12 mph).
596 new+york By this time, the storm had been tracking towards the southwest and struck the Sir Edward Pellew Group of Islands later on 22 March before moving over the Australian mainland as a slightly weaker system. By this time, the storm had been tracking towards the southwest and struck the Sir      later on    moving over the  mainland as a slightly weaker system.
597 new+york Once over land, Kathy rapidly degraded, losing gale-force winds within 24 hours; the storm dissipated over the Northern Territory on 24 March. over land,  rapidly degraded, losing gale-force winds within  ; the storm dissipated over the Northern Territory on  .
598 new+york Spawning enormous landslides, the earthquake left at least 305 people dead and more than 1,000 missing. Spawning enormous landslides, the earthquake left at least  people dead and more than  missing.
599 new+york Entire villages were covered by debris. Entire villages were covered by debris.
600 new+york It was described as "strong" by "The New York Times". It was described as "strong" by "The   ".
601 new+york On the evening of December 27th, 1983, firefighters in Buffalo, New York responded to a call regarding a propane gas leak. On the evening of    firefighters in    responded to a call regarding a propane gas leak.
602 new+york Shortly after arriving, the propane ignited, leveling a warehouse and causing a wide swath of damage. Shortly after arriving, the propane ignited, leveling a warehouse and causing a wide swath of damage.
603 new+york Five firefighters and two civilians were killed in the blast, and left many dozens more injured. firefighters and  civilians were killed in the blast, and left many dozens more injured.
604 new+york The event remains the largest single day loss of life for the Buffalo Fire Department. The event remains the largest single  loss of life for the   .
