0_philadelphia philadelphia The "   earthquake" occurred on    in the  state of  .
1_philadelphia philadelphia Measuring  on the  scale, it stands as the most powerful earthquake to occur in the state.
2_philadelphia philadelphia Shaking was felt from   to .
3_philadelphia philadelphia A brief foreshock occurred at 02:00 UTC on   and an aftershock    were reported only in   and in , .
4_philadelphia philadelphia The earthquake caused intensity VII damage on the Mercalli scale.
5_philadelphia philadelphia The "  train accident" occurred on   , in ,  , , when an early experimental railway locomotive, 's  , suffered a boiler explosion.
6_philadelphia philadelphia This engine, also known as the Steam Horse, ran on  wheels but was pushed by mechanical feet.
7_philadelphia philadelphia This was both the  recorded boiler explosion and the  railway accident causing major loss of life, as  people were killed [some sources state ].
8_philadelphia philadelphia The accident is not included in many texts because it was on an industrial waggonway or plateway, rather than a public railway.
9_philadelphia philadelphia Nevertheless, it predated  's death at   by  , and the death toll was not exceeded by any railway accident until  worldwide (see  train crash), and  in the  ( ).
10_philadelphia philadelphia It also killed more people than any other railway boiler explosion of all time.
11_philadelphia philadelphia Most boiler explosions caused severe mechanical damage but often only the locomotive crew suffered physically; however, 's locomotive was surrounded at the time by a crowd of curious sightseers, who formed the majority of the victims.
12_philadelphia philadelphia The  high-pressure steam locomotive, 's Penydarren enge, had only appeared     , and engeerg understandg of the forces and safety risks volved was still primitive.
13_philadelphia philadelphia Upon making landfall on Cape ,  , the cyclone produced a  foot (1. m) storm surge on the   side of the city.
14_philadelphia philadelphia Lasting for  , the hurricane force winds were described as "[blowing] with great violence", causing widespread devastation across the region.
15_philadelphia philadelphia In   , its passage caused damage to the port.
16_philadelphia philadelphia Strong winds reached as far inland as , , where winds of over  mph ( km/h) downed trees and chimneys; in the city, precipitation accrued to  inches ( mm).
17_philadelphia philadelphia Further to the north, the hurricane destroyed a windmill at  ,  .
18_philadelphia philadelphia Though the hurricane struck at low tide, it produced a storm surge of over  feet ( m) along several portions of the   coastline, causing significant overwash.
19_philadelphia philadelphia A "refinery owned by    in " located at   on the   in   caught fire on   .
20_philadelphia philadelphia This incident resulted in the death of  firefighters of the   , injuries to  other firefighters, and the loss of  fire apparatus.
21_philadelphia philadelphia As the fire swept rapidly eastward along  Street, ’s foam pumpers, Engines  and , and the Gulf Refinery foam pumper were rapidly destroyed in the fire’s advance.
22_philadelphia philadelphia At  Street, where Engines  and  had been assigned to improve drainage, their pieces were also destroyed in the fire’s path, although their pump operators were able to escape.
23_philadelphia philadelphia Upon reaching  Street, the fire traveled  city blocks north along  Street, threatening  additional storage tanks and the  Penrose Avenue Bridge.
24_philadelphia philadelphia It was  4:41 p.m. and a firestorm was  developing as the fire quickly spread eastward along Avenue “Y” towards  Street.
25_philadelphia philadelphia Viewing  unfolding horror before him, Commissioner  ordered  more alarms,  additional rescue squads, and  recall of all companies which had  been released from  firegrounds throughout  .
26_philadelphia philadelphia On these orders, the fire alarm room transmitted the    alarms.
27_philadelphia philadelphia As the fire had been placed under control    , firefighters in stations across the city knew that the unthinkable had occurred as these additional alarms were struck.
28_philadelphia philadelphia At 4:46 p.m., Commissioner  ordered the  alarm and notification of  Managing Director   as a major disaster was  unfolding at the Gulf Refinery.
29_philadelphia philadelphia At 6:04 a.m., upon receiving the report of fire from the Gulf Refinery, the    transmitted the refinery’s fire alarm box: Box ,  and  Avenues.
30_philadelphia philadelphia Upon leaving their station, Engine  (the assigned first-due engine company) could see fire and smoke conditions at a distance, and before arriving at the refinery, Engine  ordered the  alarm at 6:09 a.m.
31_philadelphia philadelphia It occurred on    at the    in   where members of the   a   military veterans association had gathered for the  Bicentennial.
32_philadelphia philadelphia Within   of the event’s start, veterans began falling ill with a then-unidentified pneumonia.
33_philadelphia philadelphia They were tachypneic and complained of chest pain.
34_philadelphia philadelphia As many as  people were given medical treatment, and  deaths occurred.
35_philadelphia philadelphia At the time, the  was debating the risk of a possible swine flu epidemic, and this incident prompted the passage of a national swine flu vaccination program.
36_philadelphia philadelphia That cause was ruled out, and research continued for , with various theories discussed in scientific and mass media that ranged from toxic chemicals to terrorism (domestic or foreign) aimed at the veterans.
37_philadelphia philadelphia Other memorials to the victims of the  barracks bombing have been erected in various locations within the  , including  at 's Landing in , sylvania, and  in .
38_philadelphia philadelphia Additionally, a  cedar has been planted in  National Cemetery near the graves of some of the victims of the attack, in their memory.
39_philadelphia philadelphia A plaque in the ground in front of the tree, dedicated in a ceremony on the  anniversary of the attack, reads: "Let peace take root: This cedar of  tree grows in living memory of the  killed in the  terrorist attack and all victims of terrorism around the world."
40_philadelphia philadelphia The National Museum of the  , in , , unveiled an exhibit in  in memory of the attack and its victims.
41_philadelphia philadelphia The "  earthquake" registering a moment magnitude of  occurred on    at 2:56:50 pm local time and lasted approximately   in  .
42_philadelphia philadelphia The tremor was epicentered approximately  km to the northwest of the city center, in a sparsely populated area between the working-class town of  and the    .
43_philadelphia philadelphia This proximity to the  Metropolitan Area resulted in widespread structural damage, mainly to the nearby towns of  , Acharnes,  and  as well as to the northern  suburbs of , ,  and  .
44_philadelphia philadelphia More than  buildings (including  major factories) across those areas collapsed trapping scores of victims under their rubble while dozens more were severely damaged.
45_philadelphia philadelphia Overll,  people lost their lives nd more thn  were treted for injuries in wht eventully becme 's dedliest nturl disster in lmost hlf  .
46_philadelphia philadelphia This event took  seismologists by surprise as it came from a  unknown fault, originating in an area that was for a long time considered of a particularly low seismicity.
47_philadelphia philadelphia The highest recorded peak ground acceleration was g, at  km from the epicentre, with attenuation predicting g acceleration at the centre.
48_philadelphia philadelphia Although many heat related deaths go unreported, by  , the   reported that the soaring heat was blamed for  deaths from   to the  area.
49_philadelphia philadelphia Reports by early morning   raised the death toll to at least  in  states.
50_philadelphia philadelphia As of    the  Jersey Government has confirmed  cases of swine flu and  probable cases most of them within a range of   of   or .
51_philadelphia philadelphia More swine flu cases are being reported daily, which has caused a widespread in the state.
52_philadelphia philadelphia Counties  confirmed with swine flu:  (),  (),  (),  (),   (),  (),  (),  (),  (), (),  (),  (),  (),  (),  (),  (),  (),  (7),  (1), Union (),  (), which indicates that   counties have confirmed cases of swine flu.
53_philadelphia philadelphia ":" Trembling was felt in buildings in  and  and across the state.
54_philadelphia philadelphia In   , a window shattered on a lower floor at     building, and  company sent its  employees home for  .
55_philadelphia philadelphia Other office buildings in    were also evacuated following the earthquake.
56_philadelphia philadelphia Workers at the   in  evacuated the building.
57_philadelphia philadelphia However, the    nuclear plant south of  continued to operate during the earthquake.
58_philadelphia philadelphia The Bucks County Courthouse in  was evacuated following the earthquake.
59_philadelphia philadelphia In ,    trains were restricted to a speed of  while tracks were inspected for damage, and  Speedline trains were briefly suspended, with no damage reported.
60_philadelphia philadelphia The     inspected bridges across the state for damage.
61_philadelphia philadelphia The     reported no damage to its  bridges across the  .
62_philadelphia philadelphia Historical records list up to  towns and cities that were destroyed or damaged by the earthquake: , , Temnos, , Aegae, Apollonis, Mostene, , Hierapolis, , Cyme, Tmolus, ,  and .
63_philadelphia philadelphia Of these, ,  and  are not mentioned by .
64_philadelphia philadelphia The record of damage at both  and  may refer instead to an earthquake in AD .
65_philadelphia philadelphia In  the Heroon of   was remodelled after the earthquake.
66_philadelphia philadelphia After the police got inside the schoolhouse, all of the wounded girls were taken to hospitals.
67_philadelphia philadelphia had died at  school house,  was pronounced dead on arrival at   , and  sisters survived until       when y were taken f  life support.
68_philadelphia philadelphia All of the victims that survived the immediate attack were brought to   , stabilized, and then transferred to hospitals with pediatric trauma care.
69_philadelphia philadelphia of the children were admitted to     ,  to Children's  of  and  to   in , , reported a state police spokesman.
70_philadelphia philadelphia of the surviving children was initially transported to The Reading Hospital and Medical Center via helicopter, and then transported to the Children's Hospital of  after being stabilized.
71_philadelphia philadelphia Several factions within the  family began conspiring to betray the aging .
72_philadelphia philadelphia On    the  year-old  was killed by a shotgun blast in the back of the head as he sat in his car.
73_philadelphia philadelphia It is believed that the killing was ordered by   (aka Tony Bananas), 's consigliere.
74_philadelphia philadelphia , 's body was found stuffed in a body bag in the trunk of a car in   .
75_philadelphia philadelphia About $300 in bills were jammed in his mouth and anus (to be interpreted as signs of greed).
76_philadelphia philadelphia The Commission had reportedly ordered 's murder because he assassinated  without their sanction.
77_philadelphia philadelphia Other  family members involved in 's murder were tortured and killed.
78_philadelphia philadelphia daughters noticed that  started drinking more heavily  and became erratically violent towards their mother, openly hitting her in public on at least  occasion.
79_philadelphia philadelphia Both  and  advised their mother to file for divorce and get an order of eviction to have him removed from their home.
80_philadelphia philadelphia In ,  took  and moved in with
81_philadelphia philadelphia She had changed her will and moved back in for fear that  would take  and flee.
82_philadelphia philadelphia During the holidays,  discovered  had removed files such as 's birth certificate and other records from the house.
83_philadelphia philadelphia Scripps and her  eldest daughters began documenting and keeping records of the assaults and went on    to obtain an eviction notice; however the judge refused to order his eviction.
84_philadelphia philadelphia told a friend that she began sleeping with a hammer under her bed because  new method of abuse is to wake her up in the middle of the night to scare and berate her.
85_philadelphia philadelphia On        who was asleep across the hall from her    daughter  was bludgeoned with a hammer by her husband of     8  .
86_philadelphia philadelphia daughter  had called the police on   994 at 3:30 am because she was unable to get into contact with her mother or  the police arrived and knocked down the locked door and found  unconscious in bed her sheets soaked in blood her terrier puppy next to her trying to comfort her.
87_philadelphia philadelphia Across the hall , then    had witnessed the crime that left her mother's skull irreparably broken.
88_philadelphia philadelphia was reported as saying, "Daddy gave Mommy boo-boos.
89_philadelphia philadelphia Daddy gave Mommy many boo-boos.
90_philadelphia philadelphia Why is Mommy wearing warpaint?"
91_philadelphia philadelphia Immediately the police began searching for  , in a matter of  '  BMW was found on the Tappan Zee Bridge with the bloody hammer inside, the authorities dragged the   for him, but still operated under the assumption he was still alive.
92_philadelphia philadelphia As  lay in the  hospital, her  husband,  , who was in the terminal stages of cirrhosis of the liver and had been hospitalized near , left his hospital bed to be at her side.
93_philadelphia philadelphia after the attack —  after the authorities stopped dragging the  for 's body—  was taken off life support and died without regaining consciousness.
94_philadelphia philadelphia In her death, she was able to give her liver, which was transplanted into her ex husband,  , saving his life.
95_philadelphia philadelphia "Her daughters acted on what they knew would be their mother's wishes," said family attorney, " left this world the way she lived in it-- loving and giving."
96_philadelphia philadelphia Her throat was cut from left to right, and she had been disembowelled, with her intestines thrown out of her abdomen over each of her shoulders.
97_philadelphia philadelphia The morgue examination revealed that part of her uterus was missing.
98_philadelphia philadelphia 's protruding tongue and swollen face led Dr  to think that she may have been asphyxiated with the handkerchief around her neck before her throat was cut.
99_philadelphia philadelphia As there was no blood trail leading to the yard, he was certain that she was killed where she was found.
100_philadelphia philadelphia He concluded that she suffered from a long-standing lung disease, that the victim was sober at the time of death, and had not consumed alcoholic beverages for at least some  before it.
101_philadelphia philadelphia was of the opinion that the murderer must have possessed anatomical knowledge to have sliced out the reproductive organs in a single movement with a blade about – inches (– cm) long.
102_philadelphia philadelphia However, the idea that the murderer possessed surgical skill was dismissed by other experts.
103_philadelphia philadelphia As her body was not examined extensively at the scene, it has also been suggested that the organ was removed by mortuary staff, who took advantage of bodies that had already been opened to extract organs that they could then sell as surgical specimens.
104_philadelphia philadelphia In his summing up,   raised the possibility that  was murdered deliberately to obtain the uterus, on the basis that an  had made inquiries at a  medical school for the purchase of such organs.
105_philadelphia philadelphia "The Lancet" rejected 's suggestion scathingly, pointed out "certain improbabilities and absurdities", and said it was "a grave error of judgement".
106_philadelphia philadelphia The "British Medical Journal" was similarly dismissive, and reported that the physician who requested the samples was a highly reputable doctor, unnamed, who had left the country   before the murder.
107_philadelphia philadelphia dropped the theory and never referred to it again.
108_philadelphia philadelphia The " " claimed the  doctor was from , and author   later speculated that the man in question was the notorious  .
109_philadelphia philadelphia Severely injured and losing consciousness,  declined the assistance of a priest who was offering to administer Last Rites.
110_philadelphia philadelphia While recuperating from the severe burns from the incident at a  naval hospital, his mother came to visit him by train from , carrying with her a jar of chicken soup on the  trip, which she fed him upon her arrival at the hospital, which  would credit for his unexpected recovery.
111_philadelphia philadelphia Despite wartime censorship of any details of the incident and secret classification after the war ended,  lobbied the government to memorialize the victims of the accident.
112_philadelphia philadelphia Because it was a great impediment to  commerce and warfare, there was no choice but to try to lift the Union blockade in any way possible.
113_philadelphia philadelphia "David" was  of the South's secret weapons.
114_philadelphia philadelphia Similar to the submarine "H.L. Hunley", the boat was designed to destroy enemy ships by stealthily sneaking up to their sides and placing an explosive on their hulls.
115_philadelphia philadelphia The "David" was only  feet long with a beam of  feet and a draft of  feet.
116_philadelphia philadelphia Her crew consisted of just  officers and men.
117_philadelphia philadelphia She was under the command of Lieutenant    during her   career.
118_philadelphia philadelphia On the night of  , at about 8:00 am the torpedo boat headed out from the pier toward the  gun ironclad USS "New Ironsides", which was considered the most formidable warship in the navy.
119_philadelphia philadelphia She had also survived a failed torpedo boat attack in  .
120_philadelphia philadelphia the rebels were approaching the ironclad when lookouts spotted them  yards away, just before they attached the torpedo.
121_philadelphia philadelphia The Union commander Captain    reported the following: ""At 9 p.m. discovered a very peculiar looking steamer which at  appeared like a boat standing toward our starboard beam from seaward; hailed her rapidly  times, and she making no reply, fired into her with musketry; she returned fire, dangerously wounding  W.
122_philadelphia philadelphia in charge of the deck the steamer struck us near No.  port, starboard side, exploding a large torpedo, shaking the vessel and throwing up an immense column of water, part of which fell on our decks.""
123_philadelphia philadelphia When the water fell back, some of it went down the ""s smokestack and put out the fire in her engine.
124_philadelphia philadelphia The explosion ripped a large fissure in the ironclad's starboard quarter and her crew had to quickly repair the hole but the ship remained leaky.
125_philadelphia philadelphia Damage was also inflicted to the ship's armory bulkhead and some storerooms, but casualties were light.
126_philadelphia philadelphia There were  wounded,  of whom later died, and a  man who suffered from "confusions".
127_philadelphia philadelphia "David" was heavily damaged, enough for her commander to order his men to abandon ship.
128_philadelphia philadelphia could not swim so he remained aboard and after the others left they tried to swim for nearby   under fire.
129_philadelphia philadelphia It was at this time Assistant Engineer    decided to go back to the torpedo boat where he restarted the fire and sailed away.
130_philadelphia philadelphia The remaining  Confederates, including Lieutenant , surrendered to the men of "New Ironsides" after evacuating the "David".
131_philadelphia philadelphia "New Ironsides" was apparently not in threat of sinking and the damage proved to be mostly superficial.
132_philadelphia philadelphia She returned to blockade duty after taking a short time in  to make repairs.
133_philadelphia philadelphia "David" was repaired as well and she eventually made attacks on USS "Memphis" and USS "Wabash".
134_philadelphia philadelphia Several torpedo boats of the "David" class were captured at the end of the war.
135_philadelphia philadelphia The "David" may have been among them.
136_philadelphia philadelphia was the only daughter of  , the majority stockholder in .
137_philadelphia philadelphia She was involved with  , "Tony the Zee," and was  when  was murdered.
138_philadelphia philadelphia Her relationship with  led to her addiction to heroin.
139_philadelphia philadelphia She was hospitalized in a private sanitarium in .
140_philadelphia philadelphia When she returned to ,  had a brief relationship with  .
141_philadelphia philadelphia She died of a heroin overdose in "The Murderers".
142_philadelphia philadelphia The Great  Fire in  burned for   straight and decimated a major part of central , including over  buildings.
143_philadelphia philadelphia Mutual aid companies from as far away as  ,  and    were called in to assist.
144_philadelphia philadelphia The fire led to uniform national standards in fire fighting equipment and protocols.
145_philadelphia philadelphia As with other large fires of the time, it was a predecessor to the stringent fire codes of .
146_philadelphia philadelphia In  he published a proposal for an experiment to prove that lightning is electricity by flying a kite in a storm that appeared capable of becoming a lightning storm.
147_philadelphia philadelphia On      of  conducted 's experiment using a -tall iron rod instead of a kite and he extracted electrical sparks from a cloud.
148_philadelphia philadelphia On    may possibly have conducted his famous kite experiment in , successfully extracting sparks from a cloud.
149_philadelphia philadelphia 's experiment was not written up with credit until  's  "History and  Status of Electricity"; the evidence shows that  was insulated (not in a conducting path, where he would have been in danger of electrocution).
150_philadelphia philadelphia Ors, such as Prof.    were indeed electrocuted during   following 's experiment.
151_philadelphia philadelphia Although her term was largely consumed by oversight of federally funded programs, upon assuming office as Deputy Director of the ,  became aware of a newly emerging threat, fentanyl overdose deaths in heroin addicts.
152_philadelphia philadelphia She rapidly organized a conference in  with treatment providers, emergency responders, emergency room professionals, law enforcement officials, representatives from city governments, other healthcare professionals,  to create a coordinated response to eliminate this threat to life.
153_philadelphia philadelphia Within  and for a number of reasons, fentanyl overdose deaths declined rapidly.
154_philadelphia philadelphia Of over  media events and interviews during her term, she gave  interviews on  distribution to heroin addicts and friends.
155_philadelphia philadelphia At that time, she strongly supported narcan rescue by trained healthcare personnel, but opposed distribution to heroin users and their friends, of overdose rescue kits of opiate-antidote naloxone (Narcan) in i.v. or nasal spray form.
156_philadelphia philadelphia Her opposition was based on discussions with  and  and a scientific literature survey by .
157_philadelphia philadelphia She voiced opposition to "take-home" narcan on the basis of inadequate scientific evidence to support this policy and on the basis of several publications of potential adverse outcomes.
158_philadelphia philadelphia " says drug users aren't likely to be competent to deal with an overdose emergency".
159_philadelphia philadelphia This quote was based on a several studies and the views of EMT responders, e.g.
160_philadelphia philadelphia Seal et al., , that indicated risks related to naloxone administration to opioid-dependent people, by untrained personnel.
161_philadelphia philadelphia Her opposition to "take-home" narcan arose from a number of factors cited in an   .
162_philadelphia philadelphia These included quoting Seal's detailed study of heroin – injectors in the    area,.
163_philadelphia philadelphia In this survey of  street-recruited 's who had experienced  or more heroin overdose events, 51% reported soliciting emergency assistance, 87% were in favor of participating in an overdose training program, "35% predicted they would feel comfortable using greater amounts of heroin if they had narcan in their possession, 62% would be less inclined to call  for an overdose, 30% would leave an overdose victim after nalox resusitation," and 46% might not be able to dissuade the victim from using heroin again to alleviate withdrawal symptoms induced by nalox.
164_philadelphia philadelphia Another article published by  , raised concerns that i) "the induction of an acute withdrawal syndrome (the occurrence of vomiting and aspiration is potentially life threatening)" – and that could lead to abandonment by a narcan provider/friend; ii) "the effect of naloxone may wear off prematurely when used for treatment of opioid-induced respiratory depression and require multiple doses and long-term vigilance".
165_philadelphia philadelphia "Risks warranting the cautious use of naloxone and adequate monitoring of the cardiorespiratory status of the overdose person after naloxone administration where indicated".
166_philadelphia philadelphia Based on the Seal study, she was concerned that  kits may  encourage 35% of drug abusers to use greater amounts of heroin because they thought overdosing isn't as likely, again leading to unintended consequences.
167_philadelphia philadelphia also felt that in the presence of healthcare professionals, the opportunity to provide detoxification and referral to treatment would be greater than in a "take-home" narcan provision program.
168_philadelphia philadelphia She was concerned that in a "take-home" narcan program, not all resuscitated heroin overdose events could be safely left alone.
169_philadelphia philadelphia This concern was based on an article by  et al. (): "In the medical community, it is recommended that patients with heroin overdose be watched for   2  after naloxone.
170_philadelphia philadelphia In a recent study, overdose patients were formally assessed   after receiving naloxone for presumed opioid overdose.
171_philadelphia philadelphia Of  patients, 8% were discharged in    , 3% in –  and 9% in > .
172_philadelphia philadelphia patients who were held in the emergency department (ED) or admitted required a critical intervention, including supplemental oxygen for hypoxia (), repeat naloxone (), antibiotics administered intravenously () (), assisted ventilations (), fluid bolus for hypotension (), charcoal for associated life-threatening overdose (),  inotropic agents (), antiarrhythmics for sustained tachycardia >0 beats/min (), and administration of bicarbonate for arterial [HCO3] < or venous CO < ()".
173_philadelphia philadelphia This study concluded that emergency physicians can clinically identify patients at risk of deterioration after naloxone reversal of suspected opioid overdose.
174_philadelphia philadelphia She was concerned that in the "take-home program", additional emergency room measures needed for a significant number of people (e.g.
175_philadelphia philadelphia 94/573), would not be available.
176_philadelphia philadelphia Finally, the majority of the scientific literature on take-home narcan (according to a  survey requested by Dr. ) was based on pilot studies, feasibility studies, or letters to the editor, an inadequate body of research for developing public policy or advocating a major change in medical procedures that could potentially save or cost precious lives.
177_philadelphia philadelphia 's funerl ws held in   little over   lter on   .
178_philadelphia philadelphia Her body was originally laid out at 's funeral home.
179_philadelphia philadelphia As word of her death spread through 's black community the body had to be moved to the     to accommodate the estimated  mourners who filed  her coffin on   .Contemporary newspapers reported that her funeral was attended by about   people.
180_philadelphia philadelphia Far fewer mourners attended the burial at   , in nearby  .
181_philadelphia philadelphia Gee thwarted all efforts to purchase a stone for his estranged wife,  or twice pocketing money raised for that purpose.
182_philadelphia philadelphia of the Black Mafia's most brutal, inexplicable crimes included the Dubrow Furniture Store robbery.
183_philadelphia philadelphia On       members robbed 's on South Street in .
184_philadelphia philadelphia They entered the store  by  posing as customers.
185_philadelphia philadelphia all were inside, they pulled guns on the  employees  and forced them to lie on the floor in the back of the store where they bound them with tape and electrical cord.
186_philadelphia philadelphia employees were beaten while  others were shot.
187_philadelphia philadelphia A janitor who walked in on the robbery while doing his job was shot and killed.
188_philadelphia philadelphia employee was doused with gasoline and set on fire.
189_philadelphia philadelphia After their vicious treatment of the employees, they looted the offices in the store and set more fires to destroy evidence of the robbery.
190_philadelphia philadelphia The  criminals fled the scene as soon as the fire alarm went off, purposefully trampling on  of the victim's bodies as they left.
191_philadelphia philadelphia This crime was so brutal that   wrote a novel based on it, "The ," and  Police Commissioner   was quoted as saying that the DuBrow crime was "the most vicious crime I have ever come across.
192_philadelphia philadelphia At 2:08 a.m.
193_philadelphia philadelphia (6:08 GMT), the  and largest of the explosions took place.
194_philadelphia philadelphia Fragments from the explosion traveled long distances, some lodging in the Statue of Liberty and some in the clock tower of "The Jersey Journal" building in Journal Square, over a mile away, stopping the clock at 2:12 a.m.
195_philadelphia philadelphia The explosion was the equivalent of an earthquake measuring between    on the  scale  was felt as far away as .
196_philadelphia philadelphia Windows broke as far as  away, including thousands in lower .
197_philadelphia philadelphia Some window panes in Times Square were completely shattered.
198_philadelphia philadelphia The outer wall of  's  Hall was cracked and the   was shaken.
199_philadelphia philadelphia People as far away as  were awakened by what they thought was an earthquake.
200_philadelphia philadelphia Finally,  attempts to gather irrefutable proof of the assassination attempt, wiring  with a hidden microphone and sending her off to meet a purported media contact.
201_philadelphia philadelphia Shadowing her from a distance, he is alarmed to see that his supposed contact is , not the reporter.
202_philadelphia philadelphia is the last loose end for  to eliminate, and her death will be attributed to the "Strangler."
203_philadelphia philadelphia Immediately realizing that she is in danger,  attempts to warn her, but  and  slip out of range and into the   parade.
204_philadelphia philadelphia makes a mad dash across , attempting to head them off and rescue .
205_philadelphia philadelphia He crashes his Jeep, though and is knocked out.
206_philadelphia philadelphia By the time  awakens,  has taken  to a rooftop where he attacks her.
207_philadelphia philadelphia Still listening in on his earpiece,  spots them.
208_philadelphia philadelphia He hears  screaming as he rushes to save her, but he is too late.
209_philadelphia philadelphia He arrives just after  has strangled her to death and is marking her body with the Strangler's signature bell pattern.
210_philadelphia philadelphia takes  by surprise and tries to capture him, but , laughing in his face, commits suicide.
211_philadelphia philadelphia , devastated and on his knees, then takes 's lifeless body in his arms.
212_philadelphia philadelphia While visiting her family in  on   ,   was driving alone in snowy, icy conditions.
213_philadelphia philadelphia Approaching an intersection on an isolated country road, she skidded and collided with a telephone pole, was thrown from the car into the snow, and went into shock.
214_philadelphia philadelphia Some time later, she was found and taken to   ; she had  smashed legs, a broken pelvis, broken arm, and ruptured spleen.
215_philadelphia philadelphia She spent   in  hospital, and over  course of     had  operations, which rebuilt her legs with rods and pins, as well as extensive physical rapy.
216_philadelphia philadelphia She did not tell her husband about the accident in her letters to him, believing he already had enough to worry about, and the    told a surgeon who operated upon her not to mention anything to the press, lest it worsen the treatment for  .
217_philadelphia philadelphia Businessman and POW advocate   paid for her medical care and she remained grateful to him, later saying: "The military families are in 's heart and in his soul ...
218_philadelphia philadelphia There are millions of us who are extremely grateful to  ."
219_philadelphia philadelphia after   found out about 's help, he said "we loved him for it."
220_philadelphia philadelphia She was interviewed on the "CBS Evening News" in , and said that  had no meaning for her without her husband , but that she carried on with it for the sake of their children.
221_philadelphia philadelphia The snail was  discovered at      by a field party from the Academy of Natural Sciences of .
222_philadelphia philadelphia In ,    reported the discovery, describing the snail as a subspecies of the widely distributed "Succinea ovalis".
223_philadelphia philadelphia Because of this, the  ovate amber snail is referred to in many publications as "Succinea ovalis chittenangoensis".
224_philadelphia philadelphia After the funeral Mass,  and  boarded the 21-car funeral train that took Senator 's body to ,  and    for burial.
225_philadelphia philadelphia and  were with Senator 's body,  ,  , and other  family members in the end car of the train.
226_philadelphia philadelphia The front page of the   168 edition of the " " has a large photograph that depicts   and  standing together on the rear platform of the funeral train as it passed through  .
227_philadelphia philadelphia is a successful but self-destructive  real estate salesman who is addicted to cocaine.
228_philadelphia philadelphia He embezzles $92,000 of his company's money from an escrow account and then loses it all to his addiction and the stock market.
229_philadelphia philadelphia Waking up  morning next to a girl who suffered a heart attack from a cocaine overdose, he tries to cover up the drug use, but the police make it clear that they know what happened.
230_philadelphia philadelphia There is also the matter of the company's money.
231_philadelphia philadelphia tries to flee the country but all flights are held up due to bad weather.
232_philadelphia philadelphia His collegue  lso refuses to put him up for    .
233_philadelphia philadelphia then lerns of  drug rehbilittion progrm which lsts    nd which gurntees nonymity.
234_philadelphia philadelphia He thus applies for it.
235_philadelphia philadelphia There, he meets , a tough but supportive drug rehabilitation counselor.
236_philadelphia philadelphia With great difficulty,  helps  to realize he is an addict and his life is complete chaos.
237_philadelphia philadelphia He says to him, "The best way to break old habits is to make new ones."
238_philadelphia philadelphia Judge  suffered a cerebral hemorrhage and died of pneumonia in  on   .
239_philadelphia philadelphia He was survived by his wife and daughter.
240_philadelphia philadelphia The ",  arsons" refer to a spree of deliberately-set fires in  and  in the area of , , a small  suburb.
241_philadelphia philadelphia There were  fires set in  in    and since    re have been 8 reported cases of arson in  city and  more in  surrounding area.
242_philadelphia philadelphia The fires have caused more than $3 million in damage, left scores of people homeless and resulted in the death of   woman.
243_philadelphia philadelphia As of  ,  people have been arrested in connection with some of the fires.
244_philadelphia philadelphia On    he was leading a formation of  army planes leaving the Sesquicentennial Exposition in  heading toward   in  when in heavy fog he hit a tree and crashed on Jacks Mountain near  .
245_philadelphia philadelphia He was seriously injured, including  broken legs, and after waiting in vain for rescue he crawled -and-a-half miles to a road where he was found by highway workers.
246_philadelphia philadelphia He was admitted to   and then airlifted to    in  where he was expected to recover but he died on   926 of spinal meningitis.
247_philadelphia philadelphia On     twisted a knee in a game at .
248_philadelphia philadelphia He was given diathermy treatment ("electrically induced heat" used for muscle relaxation) in the clubhouse by   trainer,  .
249_philadelphia philadelphia 's leg suffered  degree burns during the treatment, and gangrene eventually set in."It was a new method of treatment and not too much was known about it,"  said,  .
250_philadelphia philadelphia "I noticed my leg felt awfully hot.
251_philadelphia philadelphia I ended up with third-degree burns and a gangrene infection and almost lost my leg.
252_philadelphia philadelphia I was finished in the Majors...
253_philadelphia philadelphia I couldn't run and I couldn't field and when I got hurt, that was the end."
254_philadelphia philadelphia attempted a comeback but injured his leg again in   and saw limited action for the rest of the season, mostly as a pinch hitter.
255_philadelphia philadelphia wound up hitting  in  and played his last   game was on    against the   .
256_philadelphia philadelphia "The  Experiment   Zapped to Death"  -Premiere Date:     at 10PM e/p  "I Have 's Brain    Killer Thoughts"  -Premiere Date:     at 10PM e/p  "Sexy Secret Agent Full Body Transplant Honey I Nuked the Planet"  -Premiere Date:     at 10PM e/p  "It's Alive! Tripping with Uncle  My Hand is Killing Me"  -Premiere Date:     at 10PM e/p  " Grams Missing  Sound of Death"  -Premiere Date:     at 10PM e/p  "Jekyll vs  How to Make a Zombie Radio Waves of Death"  -Premiere Date:     at 10PM e/p
257_philadelphia philadelphia Confusion reigns at the  television studio in  by the pandemic's  , where staff member  and his girlfriend  are planning to steal the station's traffic helicopter to escape the zombies.
258_philadelphia philadelphia Meanwhile,  and his SWAT team raid an apartment building where the residents are ignoring the martial law of delivering the dead to National Guardsmen.
259_philadelphia philadelphia Some residents attack with rifles, and are slaughtered by the  operatives and by their own reanimated dead.
260_philadelphia philadelphia During the raid,  meets , part of another SWAT team, with whom he kills the zombies concealed below the building.
261_philadelphia philadelphia That night,  and  escape  with  and  via helecopter.
262_philadelphia philadelphia Following some close calls while stopping for fuel, the group comes across a shopping mall, which becomes their sanctuary.
263_philadelphia philadelphia To make the mall safe for habitation, they kill its zombie population and block the entrance to keep the zombies outside from entering.
264_philadelphia philadelphia During the operation,  becomes infected by the zombies' mutagen; but after clearing the mall of its zombies, the  live hedonistically upon its contents.
265_philadelphia philadelphia Later, they come to perceive themselves imprisoned by the zombies, and reveal that  is   pregnant.
266_philadelphia philadelphia The men begin to consider leaving the mall;  opposes the plan, but teaches  how to operate the helicopter in case of emergency.
267_philadelphia philadelphia eventually succumbs to his wounds, reanimates, and is shot by .
268_philadelphia philadelphia All emergency broadcast transmissions have ceased, suggesting that most civilization around them has collapsed.
269_philadelphia philadelphia On   141  and  planned to fly from   to .
270_philadelphia philadelphia The weather conditions were not suitable for flight but the couple insisted and did not heed to the warnings.
271_philadelphia philadelphia In the blinding rain the plane crashed into the side of a mountain killing the young couple instantly.
272_philadelphia philadelphia was  and had no children.
273_philadelphia philadelphia The nor'easter struck    after the  Perfect Storm produced similarly high tides across the region, and only   after another nor'easter in  .
274_philadelphia philadelphia In ,  , the storm dropped  of rainfall, which broke the daily rainfall record set in .
275_philadelphia philadelphia High tides damaged much of the dune system along the     and about a  of the newly-installed dunes in  , .
276_philadelphia philadelphia Along the  coast, the storm dropped heavy rainfall, with a total of  in ; the high rains flooded local streams.
277_philadelphia philadelphia At   , wind gusts peaked at .
278_philadelphia philadelphia The storm struck shortly after a full moon, and the combination of high tides and waves breached dunes in some locations.
279_philadelphia philadelphia Despite its longevity, the nor'easter was less severe than its predecessors along the  , mostly because the stronger northeast quadrant was over the coastline for  tidal cycle, and the predominant southeast winds were blocked by  .
280_philadelphia philadelphia However, there were still high tides and flooding along the  .
281_philadelphia philadelphia In , the nor'easter produced a high tide of , which at the time was the  highest on record.
282_philadelphia philadelphia High tides continued in  until  .
283_philadelphia philadelphia of high tides caused minor beach erosion and damaged dune systems.
284_philadelphia philadelphia In  , there was property damage from coastal flooding.
285_philadelphia philadelphia The storm produced significantly more rainfall than the storm in  , including a total of  in , .
286_philadelphia philadelphia A station in    reported a record   rainfall total of .
287_philadelphia philadelphia The rains caused flooding and the  highest discharge on record at   in .
288_philadelphia philadelphia Wind in  peaked at  at a station along the  .
289_philadelphia philadelphia Further north along the  , a high tide of  was reported in , .
290_philadelphia philadelphia High winds in the city broke the steeple of a church, and the resulting debris briefly closed the Ben Franklin Bridge.
291_philadelphia philadelphia Hurricane force wind gusts left about  residents without power.
292_philadelphia philadelphia Heavy snowfall spread across the state, reaching .
293_philadelphia philadelphia reported a total of , which contributed to its snowiest  on record.
294_philadelphia philadelphia has had several injuries over his career.
295_philadelphia philadelphia In   he broke his kneecap when he hit a wall at    in , forcing him to sit out    season.
296_philadelphia philadelphia He recovered and beat    in Taurus at    in ,  .
297_philadelphia philadelphia Later in , a hard side hit on the wall of    in ,  broke several ribs near his backbone and caused recurring problems throughout his career.
298_philadelphia philadelphia A nose-dive, AKA  lawn dart, at    in   in  aggravated  injury and caused  to miss several shows over     .
299_philadelphia philadelphia He reinjured himself at a Special Events show in , .
300_philadelphia philadelphia A broken hand from a non-driving accident in  in   him out for half of that .
301_philadelphia philadelphia Anor was an injury that was less known about was an injury to his right wrist during     in a non monster truck accident.
302_philadelphia philadelphia 's most recent injury is an arm injury at the Metrodome in  , meaning his son   drove   at shows in  .
303_philadelphia philadelphia For loading a  ,  would typically fire a couple of percussion caps on the handgun, to dry out any residual moisture contained in the tube or at the base of the barrel, to prevent a subsequent misfire.
304_philadelphia philadelphia would then remove the remains of the last fired percussion cap and place the handgun on its half-cock notch, pour  to  grains of blackpowder down the barrel, followed by ramming a patched lead ball down onto the powder, being very careful to leave no air gap between the patched ball and the powder, to prevent the handgun from exploding when used.
305_philadelphia philadelphia (The purpose of the patch on the ball was to keep the ball firmly lodged against the powder, to avoid creating what was called a "short start" when the ball was dislodged from being firmly against the powder.)
306_philadelphia philadelphia A new percussion cap would then be placed on the tube (what  would be called a nipple), and the gun was then loaded and ready to fire.
307_philadelphia philadelphia (The half-cock notch prevented the hammer from falling if the trigger were bumped accidentally while carrying the handgun in 's coat pocket.)
308_philadelphia philadelphia Then, to fire the handgun, a user would fully cock the hammer, aim, and squeeze the trigger.
309_philadelphia philadelphia Upon  misfire, the user could fully re-cock the hmmer, nd ttempt to fire the hndgun  more, or, eqully common, switch to   Deringer.
310_philadelphia philadelphia Accuracy was highly variable; although front sights were common, rear sights were less common, and some   had no sights at all, being intended for point and shoot use instead of aim and shoot, across  distances.
311_philadelphia philadelphia Professional gamblers, and others who carried regularly, often would fire and reload daily, to decrease the chance of a misfire upon needing to use a  .
312_philadelphia philadelphia Whilst lecturing in   was paid by  , the largest firm of locomotive builders, to investigate a fatal accident in Reading, near , where a boiler had exploded on a newly made train.
313_philadelphia philadelphia pronounced that the accident had been caused by lightning, which meant that  brothers were not personally liable for the accident.
314_philadelphia philadelphia A committee of the   pointed out that there was no lightning  at that time and that the pumps had been faulty, the water indicator was ill-designed and the bridge-bands made of cast iron rather than wrought iron.
315_philadelphia philadelphia The Coroner's inquest jury were persuaded by  that the accident was an 'act of God' but the company were careful to design their later locomotives with wrought-iron bands.
316_philadelphia philadelphia On    during the offseason after his rookie  campaign  was on a boating trip to   in   with  players from the ' minor-league affiliate     and   when a freak accident caused him to suffer fatal injuries.
317_philadelphia philadelphia The boat hit a wave and caused him to fall forward overboard.
318_philadelphia philadelphia The boat ran over him and its propeller slashed his neck and his jugular vein.
319_philadelphia philadelphia Twice during his baseball career  went into the stands during a game to aid a fan who was suffering a heart attack.
320_philadelphia philadelphia In  in  he performed CPR and mouth-to-mouth on a fan who died later that .
321_philadelphia philadelphia In a  game between the   and the   he revived a man who was suffering a heart attack.
322_philadelphia philadelphia The man survived and lived several more .
323_philadelphia philadelphia The result of the sudden shift of the party line caused shock and confusion among many members of the   , a goodly number of whom had joined during the period of the Popular Front against fascism.
324_philadelphia philadelphia declared at   rally that only "a  or so" had left the  over the change of line; in actuality the party's ranks fell by 15% between     recruitment of new members in  fell by 75% over  levels.
325_philadelphia philadelphia The public image of the  as a main bulwark against fascism and claims of the  as an indigenous radical organization were severely undermined.
326_philadelphia philadelphia According to "The Baseball Necrology",  died in  from injuries suffered when he was "thrown through a saloon window" in .
327_philadelphia philadelphia ("The Baseball Necrology: The Post-Baseball Lives and Deaths of Over     and Others", by  .)
328_philadelphia philadelphia In  ,   after  fired ,  committed suicide by overdosing on prescription drugs in , .
329_philadelphia philadelphia He had been suffering from clinical depression, which  believes was brought on by medication he had been taking since suffering a heart attack in .
330_philadelphia philadelphia In the  area,  homes were flooded and  residents were evacuated.
331_philadelphia philadelphia Around  people became stranded at the Radisson Hotel.
332_philadelphia philadelphia Although wind gusts were below hurricane-force in , saturated ground from the torrential precipitation resulted in widespread downed trees, some of which struck houses and vehicles.
333_philadelphia philadelphia 's Covered Bridge sustained severe damage due to fallen trees.
334_philadelphia philadelphia Over  homes and businesses lost power as a result of Tropical Storm Floyd.
335_philadelphia philadelphia On the  , which spans the  , high winds tipped over some cars of a freight train.
336_philadelphia philadelphia produced moderate to heavy rainfall across the eastern half of the state, concentrated in extreme southeastern areas, where as much as  of precipitation fell.
337_philadelphia philadelphia In  , the highest verifiable storm rainfall total of  was reported.
338_philadelphia philadelphia The  of precipitation at    set a new daily rainfall record and an overall  record.
339_philadelphia philadelphia Rain from the storm exceeded  levels along the axis of the most severe downpours.
340_philadelphia philadelphia A cold front that stalled on   acted as a conveyor belt of tropical moisture, which reached the area early that same .
341_philadelphia philadelphia The rainfall had abated by the afternoon on  .
342_philadelphia philadelphia Winds were generally below , although a gust to  occurred at the Commodore Barry Bridge.
343_philadelphia philadelphia Upon making landfall,  produced a storm surge that tracked up the  , with a station along the river in  reporting a storm tide of  feet ( m).
344_philadelphia philadelphia There, the surge flooded low-lying areas along the river.
345_philadelphia philadelphia The large circulation of the hurricane produced moderate winds throughout the state, with wind gusts in the southeastern portion of the state reaching  mph ( km/h) in  .
346_philadelphia philadelphia ,  also recorded a wind gust of  mph ( km/h), which contributed to severe delays at the   .
347_philadelphia philadelphia The moderate wind gust downed thousands of trees, tree limbs, and power lines.
348_philadelphia philadelphia energy reported their worst power outage on record with about  customers losing electricity.
349_philadelphia philadelphia The company estimated it would cost at least $20 million ( USD, $23 million 2008 USD) for it to install about  miles ( km) of new cable and install about  new fuses and circuit breakers.
350_philadelphia philadelphia The   power company reported  customers without power, with    and Light customers losing electricity.
351_philadelphia philadelphia Continuing northward, heavy rains from  spread into , bringing further floods to the already storm-stricken state.
352_philadelphia philadelphia Already saturated by the remnants of Hurricanes  and , soil across the state was unable to hold much additional moisture, resulting in widespread flooding.
353_philadelphia philadelphia Rainfall peaked at  in  ; this ranks  as the  wettest tropical cyclone on record in .
354_philadelphia philadelphia Numerous creeks, streams and rivers overflowed their banks and inundated nearby areas.
355_philadelphia philadelphia In  , the   rose  above flood stage, resulting in swift water rescues and prompting emergency officials to open shelters.
356_philadelphia philadelphia Numerous roads across the state were shut down due to high waters.
357_philadelphia philadelphia In , flash flooding resulted in  fatality after a woman was swept away by swift currents while trying to board a  bus.
358_philadelphia philadelphia people attempted to rescue her, however, she became trapped under a pickup truck and drowned.
359_philadelphia philadelphia Several abandoned buildings in the city also collapsed.
360_philadelphia philadelphia A commuter train carrying  people was evacuated after passengers felt uneasy due to loose soil underneath the rails.
361_philadelphia philadelphia of the major roadways connecting  with a western suburb was shut down after more than  covered portions of it.
362_philadelphia philadelphia Several water rescues had to be made along the road after residents became trapped in flood waters.
363_philadelphia philadelphia Additionally, several schools were closed on   due to hazardous conditions.
364_philadelphia philadelphia In all,  left $290 million ( USD; $  USD)in losses throughout .
365_philadelphia philadelphia While in  ,  ,  met and became involved with the  screenwriter  , a native of , .
366_philadelphia philadelphia During the time they were briefly apart in   ( in   ,  in ),  wrote to  that she was pregnant with his child.
367_philadelphia philadelphia wrote back to propose.
368_philadelphia philadelphia Although  did not receive  letter, she telephoned    to inform  she was arriving in .
369_philadelphia philadelphia had a chance to propose to her in person, but insisted that he did not want the child.
370_philadelphia philadelphia suffered a miscarriage shortly thereafter.
371_philadelphia philadelphia On    the couple married in   .
372_philadelphia philadelphia After the wedding, the couple moved back to  .
373_philadelphia philadelphia After suffering a series of strokes  eventually became paralyzed before his death on   .
374_philadelphia philadelphia An unusually detailed accounting of the storm's passage through  ,  was provided   :  a local resident undertook an informal, but detailed survey of the damage produced by the storm, and this account was published in an   () newspaper.
375_philadelphia philadelphia This accounting establishes a steady SW-to-NE movement through the county, with a number of buildings - sharecropper cabins, large homes, and a mill - swept away along the path.
376_philadelphia philadelphia As the storm passed  SE of downtown , it may have peaked in intensity; it was noted that all structures along a  segment of the path (beginning at this point) were destroyed.
377_philadelphia philadelphia The surveyor noted a path width of  to , with the most extreme damage (and most deaths) in the   community.
378_philadelphia philadelphia The surveyor noted that:
379_philadelphia philadelphia Tracking to the northeast, it crossed the Pee Dee River into  , and produced sporadic damage until just southeast of .
380_philadelphia philadelphia Extreme damage to pine forests was  noted just south of town.
381_philadelphia philadelphia Strengthening considerably, the storm swept through the southeast edge of , where large homes were destroyed to their foundations, and large hardwood trees were snapped at ground level.
382_philadelphia philadelphia The   community (presently on  Highway ,  miles northeast of downtown ) was devastated, with most of the poorly constructed dwellings in the community completely destroyed.
383_philadelphia philadelphia The storm had widened to nearly  mile in width at this point.
384_philadelphia philadelphia 's name will forever be linked to other  tragedies.
385_philadelphia philadelphia In , 's  offensive line teammate,  , was killed in an automobile accident during his rookie season with the  .
386_philadelphia philadelphia During the  season,   offensive line teammate   was paralyzed during a football game.
387_philadelphia philadelphia after 's death,   defensive tackle   was killed in an automobile accident.
388_philadelphia philadelphia And   after 's death, linebacker   was also killed in an automobile accident.
389_philadelphia philadelphia Ironically,  was 's teammate with both  and the  .
390_philadelphia philadelphia " " was an  kidnapping victim.
391_philadelphia philadelphia She was abducted on    from a  sidewalk.
392_philadelphia philadelphia There was  witness , a    child named  .
393_philadelphia philadelphia tried to help  but was pushed to the ground before  men pulled off.
394_philadelphia philadelphia When 's grandmother called for  and her sister, a crying  stated that  had been kidnapped, but her sister was around the corner.
395_philadelphia philadelphia 's bductors bound her hnds nd feet nd held her cptive in  vcnt house until she ws ble to free herself by gnwing t the tpe on her wrists nd then smshing  window,  dy fter the kidnpping.
396_philadelphia philadelphia Both 's bravery and the media's handling of the situation attracted considerable attention.
397_philadelphia philadelphia Prof.  was asked to comment by the    on    on an alleged collision between the  and a comet reported by Prof.  of .
398_philadelphia philadelphia stated that no such collision occurred on    since there was no comet near the  at the time of the collision.
399_philadelphia philadelphia theorized that a Comet could not collide with the  because planets and comets are electrically positive and therefore repel each other, "If a comet were to strike the earth it would smash the comet into meteoric dust in  ."
400_philadelphia philadelphia There have been case studies of claims made.
401_philadelphia philadelphia Following a    fellowship in , Dr.    conducted a case study of  people who claimed to have been cured during her services.
402_philadelphia philadelphia 's long-term follow-ups concluded there were no cures in those cases.
403_philadelphia philadelphia Furrmore, " woman who was said to have been cured of spinal cancer threw away her brace and ran across  stage at 's command; her spine collapsed   , according to , and she died   ."
404_philadelphia philadelphia In ,  died in , , following open-heart surgery.
405_philadelphia philadelphia The film opens with  Police Detective   ( ) in a snowy wood.
406_philadelphia philadelphia In   , Hobbes gains notoriety for capturing serial killer   ( ).
407_philadelphia philadelphia After  is executed,  and his partner  ( ) investigate a string of murders by an apparent copycat killer.
408_philadelphia philadelphia Eventually  tracks down the killer and confronts him alone, where the man makes a startling claim: he is the same killer  sentenced to death, but not  ; rather, he is the demon , and was possessing 's body during the murders.
409_philadelphia philadelphia claims he can possess any person merely by touching them.
410_philadelphia philadelphia of the few exceptions is Detective Hobbes, which has turned 's ire at the Detective for capturing him into an obsession.
411_philadelphia philadelphia Hobbes is skeptical of 's claims until the demon begins to sing "Time Is on My Side", then begins to possess people via touch, continuing to sing the song as he moves from body to body before fading away into the crowd of people on the street.
412_philadelphia philadelphia Hobbes follows a lead from a riddle  gave him concerning  , a decorated cop who committed suicide in his mountain cabin   .
413_philadelphia philadelphia locates 's daughter,  ( ), who explains that her father was framed for corruption and killed himself to avoid his eventual conviction.
414_philadelphia philadelphia When  journeys to the cabin, he finds a clue uncovering a deeper truth: when he died  was trying to kill .
415_philadelphia philadelphia In  itself, the combination of snow and sleet closed many of the schools, delayed flights, trains and buses.
416_philadelphia philadelphia The school district parochial schools were closed on the , as were the regional and central administrative offices.
417_philadelphia philadelphia During the midday  on the , giant slabs of ice slid off tops of buildings in   and crashed to the ground.
418_philadelphia philadelphia Chunks of ice as large as  feet wide made their way to the pavement from high up.
419_philadelphia philadelphia Police started to block off areas where the ice was falling, however  man was hit in the head by the falling ice and was knocked to the ground.
420_philadelphia philadelphia In  , state police closed Interstates  and 3 during the afternoon of the  because of bad road conditions.
421_philadelphia philadelphia Interstate  was closed between Interstates  and 3.
422_philadelphia philadelphia The combination of a heavy snowfall then a mix of sleet, snow and freezing rain made for hazardous road conditions.
423_philadelphia philadelphia The mixed precipitation made it more difficult for some road crews to keep up.
424_philadelphia philadelphia At 4 PM EST on the  the interstates reopened after ice was removed and the road surfaces was safe for travel.
425_philadelphia philadelphia In and around the Greater   area, in  , slippery road conditions contributed to a tractor-trailer accident on the  on Route  in  .
426_philadelphia philadelphia The highway was closed for    , which forced motorists to detour on slush-covered side streets.
427_philadelphia philadelphia In , a large portion of the roof of a four-story building was blown off, forcing residents to evacuate the building.
428_philadelphia philadelphia An  pillar was knocked down at the    in .
429_philadelphia philadelphia In  , a fire sparked by fallen power lines destroyed a barn and partially melted a nearby metal shed.
430_philadelphia philadelphia The blaze was fully contained by  firefighters.
431_philadelphia philadelphia Another fire sparked by fallen power lines destroyed a garage in   .
432_philadelphia philadelphia In , the roof of a portable classroom began to peel off, forcing the  students inside to evacuate to a safer structure.
433_philadelphia philadelphia A large tree fell through  house and severely damaged the roof of a nearby home.
434_philadelphia philadelphia Numerous major highways and local streets were shut down for   to allow cleanup crews to clear debris.
435_philadelphia philadelphia Throughout the state, damages from the storm system amounted to $3.7 million.
436_philadelphia philadelphia Some heroin dealers mix fentanyl powder with heroin to increase potency or compensate for low-quality heroin.
437_philadelphia philadelphia In , illegally manufactured, non-pharmaceutical fentanyl often mixed with cocaine or heroin caused an outbreak of overdose deaths in the  , heavily concentrated in the cities of , ; ; ; ; ; ;  ; ; ,  ;  ; and  were also affected.
438_philadelphia philadelphia The mixture of fentanyl and heroin is known as "magic" or "the bomb", among other names, on the street.
439_philadelphia philadelphia .
440_philadelphia philadelphia .
441_philadelphia philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
442_philadelphia philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
443_philadelphia philadelphia Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
444_philadelphia philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
445_philadelphia philadelphia New Edition.
446_philadelphia philadelphia , ,  , :   .
447_philadelphia philadelphia .
448_philadelphia philadelphia .
449_philadelphia philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
450_philadelphia philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
451_philadelphia philadelphia Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
452_philadelphia philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
453_philadelphia philadelphia New Edition.
454_philadelphia philadelphia , ,  , :   .
455_philadelphia philadelphia .
456_philadelphia philadelphia .
457_philadelphia philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
458_philadelphia philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
459_philadelphia philadelphia Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
460_philadelphia philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
461_philadelphia philadelphia New Edition.
462_philadelphia philadelphia , ,  , :   .
463_philadelphia philadelphia .
464_philadelphia philadelphia .
465_philadelphia philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
466_philadelphia philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
467_philadelphia philadelphia Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
468_philadelphia philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
469_philadelphia philadelphia New Edition.
470_philadelphia philadelphia , ,  , :   .
471_philadelphia philadelphia queen  was living during this time.
472_philadelphia philadelphia .
473_philadelphia philadelphia .
474_philadelphia philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
475_philadelphia philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
476_philadelphia philadelphia Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
477_philadelphia philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
478_philadelphia philadelphia New Edition.
479_philadelphia philadelphia , ,  , :   .
480_philadelphia philadelphia .
481_philadelphia philadelphia .
482_philadelphia philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
483_philadelphia philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
484_philadelphia philadelphia Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
485_philadelphia philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
486_philadelphia philadelphia New Edition.
487_philadelphia philadelphia , ,  , :   .
488_philadelphia philadelphia .
489_philadelphia philadelphia .
490_philadelphia philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
491_philadelphia philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
492_philadelphia philadelphia Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
493_philadelphia philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
494_philadelphia philadelphia New Edition.
495_philadelphia philadelphia , ,  , :   .
496_philadelphia philadelphia .
497_philadelphia philadelphia .
498_philadelphia philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
499_philadelphia philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
500_philadelphia philadelphia Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
501_philadelphia philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
502_philadelphia philadelphia New Edition.
503_philadelphia philadelphia , ,  , :   .
504_philadelphia philadelphia .
505_philadelphia philadelphia .
506_philadelphia philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
507_philadelphia philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
508_philadelphia philadelphia Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
509_philadelphia philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
510_philadelphia philadelphia New Edition.
511_philadelphia philadelphia , ,  , :   .
512_philadelphia philadelphia .
513_philadelphia philadelphia .
514_philadelphia philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
515_philadelphia philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
516_philadelphia philadelphia Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
517_philadelphia philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
518_philadelphia philadelphia New Edition.
519_philadelphia philadelphia , ,  , :   .
520_philadelphia philadelphia Fire Insurance has over   of history in .
521_philadelphia philadelphia The early fire marks of  's time can still be seen on some  buildings as well as in other older  cities.
522_philadelphia philadelphia Subscribers paid fire fighting companies in advance for fire protection and in exchange would receive a fire mark to attach to their building.
523_philadelphia philadelphia The payments for the fire marks supported the fire fighting companies.
524_philadelphia philadelphia Volunteer fire departments were also common in the  , and some fire insurers contributed money to these departments and awarded bonuses to the  fire engine arriving at the scene of a fire.
525_philadelphia philadelphia The role of incendiary vessels changed throughout the age of the modern fire ship.
526_philadelphia philadelphia The systematic use of fire ships as part of naval actions peaked around the   War.
527_philadelphia philadelphia Whereas just   before a naval fleet might have  to  fire ships, by the Battle of  in  both the    fleets employed typically between    fire ships,  sometimes more.
528_philadelphia philadelphia By this time, however, admirals and captains had become very experienced with the limitations of fire ship attacks and had learned how to avoid them during battle.
529_philadelphia philadelphia Great numbers of fire ships were expended during the    without destroying enemy men-of-war, and fire ships had become a way to harass and annoy the enemy, rather than destroy him.
530_philadelphia philadelphia The successful use  fire ships at the     and  in  marked both the greatest achievement  a fire ship attack since the  , and also the last significant success for fire ships.
531_philadelphia philadelphia Though fire ships as a specified class sailed with the    for  , they would never have a significant impact on a naval victory.
532_philadelphia philadelphia most feared weapons in naval arsenals, fire ships had declined in both importance  numbers, so that by    only  to   fire ships would be at sea at a time,     attempted only  attacks using modern fire ships between   .
533_philadelphia philadelphia Hastily outfitted ad hoc fire ships continued to be used in naval warfare; for example, a large number of fire rafts were used in mostly ineffective attacks on the  fleet by  forces during the   at , on the  , and elsewhere.
534_philadelphia philadelphia The end of  modern fire ship came in    , when   began to use hastily outfitted fire ships at engagements such as Boulogne and  despite  presence of purpose-built fire ships in  fleet.
535_philadelphia philadelphia The last modern fire ship in the    was "Thais", the only designated fire ship out of the entire navy of  warships when she was converted to a ship sloop in .
536_philadelphia philadelphia On      was the site of  of the worst train accidents in the   when    Railroad trains collided with  another near the   station (later renamed to    the defunct Fellwick Station).
537_philadelphia philadelphia The exact number of deaths is uncertain, but  were killed instantly and dozens more perished from their injuries.
538_philadelphia philadelphia Many of the dead were children from  's    from the  section of , who were traveling to 's , a park in the   area, for a  school picnic.
539_philadelphia philadelphia In , an on-duty cop gets a call from a man he calls "Colonel" to pick up a briefcase at a nearby train station.
540_philadelphia philadelphia As he does so, a nearby pulse causes electronics to gain static, and his body becomes hardened.
541_philadelphia philadelphia He explodes, killing  people and injuring others with his hardened body parts.
542_philadelphia philadelphia Initially thinking the explosion was caused by a bomb, the Fringe team arrives to investigate, and discover that instead of a bomb, the cop's body parts killed the others.
543_philadelphia philadelphia A further utopsy revels needle mrks between the cop's toes, nd they relize he ws injecting some type of drug every dy for    yer.
544_philadelphia philadelphia Everything appeared in order as the train passed through   station ahead of schedule and slowed its speed, but shortly afterward, as it passed a rail yard, workers noticed flames coming from a journal box (a hot box) on  of the cars  and rang the next signal tower at  , but the call came too late.
545_philadelphia philadelphia Before the tower man could react, disaster struck as the train passed his signal tower at 6:06 pm traveling at a speed of  mph.
546_philadelphia philadelphia The journal box on the front of car #7 seized and an axle snapped, catching the underside of the truck and catapulting the car upwards.
547_philadelphia philadelphia It struck a signal gantry, which peeled off its roof along the line of windows "like a can of sardines".
548_philadelphia philadelphia Car #8 wrapped itself around the gantry upright in a figure U.
549_philadelphia philadelphia The next  cars were scattered at odd angles over the tracks, and the last  cars remained undamaged, with bodies of the  dead lying scattered over the tracks.
550_philadelphia philadelphia As it was wartime, many servicemen home on leave were aboard who helped  injured, workers from  nearby Cramp's shipyard arrived with acetylene torches to cut open cars to rescue  injured, a process that took until   .
551_philadelphia philadelphia The rescue work was directed by mayor  .
552_philadelphia philadelphia The work of removing the dead was not complete until   after the accident.
553_philadelphia philadelphia At 2:13pm    National's Flight  a DC-4 landed in  from    enroute to  .
554_philadelphia philadelphia It skidded off the icy runway, through a fence, and into a ditch.
555_philadelphia philadelphia The left wing broke off, rupturing the gasoline tanks, and the plane caught fire.
556_philadelphia philadelphia opened the emergency door and saw the ground  feet below.
557_philadelphia philadelphia Returning to the cabin, she helped passengers release their seat belts, guided them to the door and gave a gentle shove to those who were hesitant to jump.
558_philadelphia philadelphia After saving  passengers, she returned to the cabin to try to rescue a baby.
559_philadelphia philadelphia After the fire was extinguished, the bodies of  women and  infants were found.
560_philadelphia philadelphia of the women was   with a   infant in her arms.
561_philadelphia philadelphia In  ,  died penniless and alone at age .
562_philadelphia philadelphia According to the "Sporting Life", the "   of his life were spent in abject poverty and mental gloom."
563_philadelphia philadelphia He reportedly lived in a "seedy  rooming house," and died of "consumption of the bowels" at  ."
564_philadelphia philadelphia According to several accounts, a policeman at the morgue saw the body and believed it to be .
565_philadelphia philadelphia was called to the morgue and confirmed that the body was .
566_philadelphia philadelphia His funeral was poorly attended by his former baseball colleagues, and  former player who did attend observed, "There were not enough friends of  at his funeral to bury him and we had to call on the hack drivers to make up the list of active pall-bearers."
567_philadelphia philadelphia Following 's death,   , , editor of "Sporting Life" wrote:"So   has passed into the great beyond, and the man whose salary figure marked the high-water limit of the long ago is gone!
568_philadelphia philadelphia ... What a ball player this  was and what an artist in getting the fat salaries!
569_philadelphia philadelphia ...  was a real infielder of the type so popular    --   of the solid, bulky style through whom no grounder seemed able to pass, but who could nevertheless wave the hot s goodbye with graceful ease when occasion demanded.
570_philadelphia philadelphia With the gloves  in use to aid,  would have been even a bigger wonder  than then."
571_philadelphia philadelphia a resident  King    died on    at the Hospital  the    in  at the age  . had suffered from  health problems, including kidney ailments, and injuries from a car accident   before his death may have contributed to his declining health.
572_philadelphia philadelphia He suffered the car accident shortly after returning from a trip to  in  , and had been hospitalized on several occasions since the accident.
573_philadelphia philadelphia The bridge passes over an oil refinery (originally owned by  ,  by  ).
574_philadelphia philadelphia It has been imperiled a few times by fires at the refinery.
575_philadelphia philadelphia On    fire broke out in a tank to the northeast of the bridge that was being filled with  crude oil.
576_philadelphia philadelphia As the fire enveloped much of the refinery, several explosions put a large crack in a smokestack next to the bridge.
577_philadelphia philadelphia Officials closed the bridge for  , fearing that the stack might collapse or the fire might damage the bridge.
578_philadelphia philadelphia The     also killed  firefighters.
579_philadelphia philadelphia was found dead by a police officer in   after he had died in    of  morning after a bar room brawl.
580_philadelphia philadelphia , the son of  , wrote of his recollection of 's death, stating that the papers proclaimed  was found dead at the doorway when he had planned on going to paint the dawn, when in actuality, the harmless old man had been beaten to death by  of the other customers at the bar.
581_philadelphia philadelphia In reference to his funeral, it was crowded by family and  and  friends.
582_philadelphia philadelphia He was buried in an  embroidered waistcoat that was  of his most important and valuable possessions.
583_philadelphia philadelphia According to newspaper reports,  funeral took place in    on Broadway 31-Oct-1933.
584_philadelphia philadelphia His body was then transferred for burial via the  ,   to   on the 11:25 train.
585_philadelphia philadelphia A brief ceremony took place and he was buried with his late parents, Mr. & Mrs.  .
586_philadelphia philadelphia Fernwood Cemetery.
587_philadelphia philadelphia On     aged  died of AIDS-related complications.
588_philadelphia philadelphia Her closed-casket funeral (recommended by the funeral director due to the ravages of , which was not properly understood at the time) was held on   at a small funeral home in .
589_philadelphia philadelphia Nobody from the fashion world attended, mainly because no  knew about her death until  after she had died.
590_philadelphia philadelphia However,  ,  , 's friend and confidant, sent a Mass card when he heard the news.
591_philadelphia philadelphia Following the capitulation of  in ,  damaged the  battleship "Italia" and sank the "Roma" with Fritz-X bombs.
592_philadelphia philadelphia Attacks were also made on the USS "Savannah", causing much damage and loss of life.
593_philadelphia philadelphia HMS "Warspite" was hit by  Fritz-X, and although casualties were few, had to be towed to  for repair and was out of action for  .
594_philadelphia philadelphia The cruiser USS "" was very slightly damaged by several near misses of Fritz-X bombs.
595_philadelphia philadelphia The light cruiser HMS "" was also hit and put out of action for almost the entire war as a result.
596_philadelphia philadelphia The  storm wreked hvoc t    hd most flights on the  cncelled nd it took    dys for flights to return to norml.
597_philadelphia philadelphia The largest impact of the  storm within  was the cancellation of most of the  scheduled flights at the   .
598_philadelphia philadelphia About  people were stranded at the airport the night of the .
599_philadelphia philadelphia Passengers on about    planes sat on the tarmac for over   before gates became available to deplane them.
600_philadelphia philadelphia Operations resumed on the , but   still had to cancel    of its flights because the weather prevented crews and planes from arriving in .
601_philadelphia philadelphia About  travelers slept at the airport on the night of the .
602_philadelphia philadelphia Normal operations resumed on the .
603_philadelphia philadelphia reason for the fire's duration was the lack of national standards in fire-fighting equipment.
604_philadelphia philadelphia Fire crews and fire engines came from as far away as  and  that  (units from    were on  way, but were blocked by a train accident; y arrived   ).
605_philadelphia philadelphia The crews brought their own equipment.
606_philadelphia philadelphia Most could only watch helplessly when they discovered that their hoses could not fit 's hydrants.
607_philadelphia philadelphia High winds and freezing temperatures added to the difficulty for firefighters and further contributed to the severity of the fire.
608_philadelphia philadelphia As a result, the fire burned over  , destroying  buildings spanning  city blocks &mdash; amounting to over .
609_philadelphia philadelphia The fire began in the evening in a five-story warehouse at  Merchant Street ( called Beaver Street) at the intersection with Pearl Street between  ,  and Wall Street in the s-covered city and was fed by gale-force winds blowing from the northwest towards the  .
610_philadelphia philadelphia With temperatures as low as  and the   frozen solid, firefighters had to cut holes in the ice to get water.
611_philadelphia philadelphia Water then froze in the hoses and pumps.
612_philadelphia philadelphia Attempts to blow up buildings in its path (a technique later regarded as counterproductive) were thwarted by a lack of gunpowder in .
613_philadelphia philadelphia Firefighters coming to help from  said they could see signs of the fire there.
614_philadelphia philadelphia The morning of   saw a  of the city smoldering ruins, a forest of chimneys and walls amid a heap of ruins, although occasional buildings that were inexplicably left untouched amid the destruction.
615_philadelphia philadelphia It was said that “ best half of  city” had been burned, an area representing  acres, and    Ward of  city had just  or  dwellings untouched.
616_philadelphia philadelphia Local artist    captured this landscape in a series of paintings which he quickly had printed as a lithograph.
617_philadelphia philadelphia This was published in  and saw a broad market, as did prints by   in  and   in   (both of whom based their works on newspaper reports), in line with a growing trend of ‘disaster prints.’
618_philadelphia philadelphia The fire destroyed as many as  buildings, while displacing  families, about  individuals, from their homes.
619_philadelphia philadelphia On the hills surrounding the city could be seen piles of household belongings.
620_philadelphia philadelphia Surprisingly, only  people died.
621_philadelphia philadelphia was lawyer  , who was thought to have returned to his house to rescue a piano but lost his bearings in the heat and smoke, his body being found in the basement of a neighbor’s destroyed house.
622_philadelphia philadelphia The other body was not found until  , and is thought to be that of a Mrs. , whose family had advertised not having seen her since the fire.
623_philadelphia philadelphia Estimates of cost range from $5 to $25 million, one recent author placing it at $12,000,000, which he equated with $267 million in  dollars.
624_philadelphia philadelphia Almost n of this was recoverable, as all but  of 's insurers were bankrupted by the disaster.
625_philadelphia philadelphia "The Great Train Wreck of " occurred between   and    on   .
626_philadelphia philadelphia trains, traveling on the same track in converging directions, collided, killing between   ,  injuring over .
627_philadelphia philadelphia The incident was referred to as "The Camp Hill Disaster" in  , and "The Picnic Train Tragedy" in the city of .
628_philadelphia philadelphia It was the deadliest railroad catastrophe in the world up to that time and became  of the signature events of its era.
629_philadelphia philadelphia A method for performing a decapitation illusion, where a person's head is apparently severed and displayed on a plate next to their headless body, was described in "The Discoverie of Witchcraft" by  , published in .
630_philadelphia philadelphia A decapitation illusion involving the apparent beheading of  boys and a dove was also recorded as being performed by   in .
631_philadelphia philadelphia had agreed to fake his own death so that his wife could collect on the $10,000 policy, which she was to split with  and the shady attorney, .
632_philadelphia philadelphia The scheme, which was to take place in , was that  should set himself up as an inventor, under the name  , and then be killed and disfigured in a lab explosion.
633_philadelphia philadelphia was to find an appropriate cadaver to play the role of .
634_philadelphia philadelphia instead killed .
635_philadelphia philadelphia Forensic evidence presented at 's later trial showed that chloroform was administered "after" 's death, presumably to fake suicide.
636_philadelphia philadelphia ( had been an alcoholic and chronic depressive.)
637_philadelphia philadelphia proceeded to collect on the policy on the basis of the genuine Pitezel corpse.
638_philadelphia philadelphia He then went on to manipulate 's wife into allowing  of her  children (, , and ) to stay in his custody.
639_philadelphia philadelphia The eldest daughter and baby remained with Mrs. .
640_philadelphia philadelphia He traveled with the children through the northern   and into .
641_philadelphia philadelphia Simultaneously, he escorted Mrs.  along a parallel route, all the while using various aliases and lying to Mrs.  concerning her husband's death (claiming that  was in hiding in  ) as well as lying to her about the true whereabouts of her other children—they were often separated by only a few blocks.
642_philadelphia philadelphia A  detective,   , had tracked , finding the decomposed bodies of the   girls in  buried in the cellar of
643_philadelphia philadelphia .
644_philadelphia philadelphia He then followed  to , where  had rented a cottage.
645_philadelphia philadelphia was reported to have visited a local pharmacy to purchase the drugs which he used to kill  , and a repair shop to sharpen the knives he used to chop up the body before he burned it.
646_philadelphia philadelphia The boy's teeth and bits of bone were discovered in the home's chimney.
647_philadelphia philadelphia When  fell to the  in , several  vessels found themselves trapped between the city and the  fleet further down the  .
648_philadelphia philadelphia The  launched some  fire ships towards the , but gunfire from "Roebuck", "Camilla", and other  vessels caused the  to set their ships on fire too soon, and to abandon them.
649_philadelphia philadelphia boats were able to pull the fire ships on shore where they could do no harm.
650_philadelphia philadelphia On     had dinner with the mayor of  and attended a theatre production with his wife in .
651_philadelphia philadelphia , he was found dead at age .
652_philadelphia philadelphia Although some claim that  committed suicide in his bathtub with a self-inflicted gunshot to the head, almost every obituary, as well as the official coroner's report, stated that he died of heart disease in bed.
653_philadelphia philadelphia "The   " further reported that,   before his death,  suffered from a bout of typhoid pneumonia.
654_philadelphia philadelphia Heat waves are the most lethal type of weather phenomenon, overall.
655_philadelphia philadelphia Between  and , deaths from excessive heat in the   numbered , compared with  deaths from floods and  from hurricanes.
656_philadelphia philadelphia The average annual number of fatalities directly attributed to heat in the   is about .
657_philadelphia philadelphia The   heat wave,  of the worst in  history, led to approximately  heat-related deaths over a period of  .
658_philadelphia philadelphia has noted that in the  , the loss of human life in hot spells in  exceeds that caused by all other weather events combined, including lightning, rain, floods, hurricanes, and tornadoes.
659_philadelphia philadelphia Despite the dangers,  , professor of geography at   , found that less than half of people  and older abide by heat-emergency recommendations like drinking lots of water.
660_philadelphia philadelphia In his study of heat-wave behavior, focusing particularly on seniors in , , , and , , he found that people over  "don't consider themselves seniors."
661_philadelphia philadelphia "Heat doesn't bother me much, but I worry about my neighbors," said  of his older respondents.
662_philadelphia philadelphia According to the Agency for Health care Research and Quality, about   are hospitalized each  due to excessive heat, and those at highest risk are poor, uninsured or elderly.
663_philadelphia philadelphia More than   died as a result of the   heat wave.
664_philadelphia philadelphia Hundreds of thousands of people were left without power across the region.
665_philadelphia philadelphia In the  area alone over  people were without power at the peak of the storm, according to  and .
666_philadelphia philadelphia Many customers would remain without power until  .
667_philadelphia philadelphia The outage took place just after  had set record highs for electricity usage as a result of the extreme heat wave.
668_philadelphia philadelphia Power crews from as far away as  were called in to help restore power, after repairing  damage from   's storms.
669_philadelphia philadelphia A state of emergency was declared in  ,  as a result of the storm.
670_philadelphia philadelphia On   199 while driving to  after being inducted into the [http://www.broadcastershalloffame.com/ Broadcasters Hall of Fame] the night before  was severely injured in a traffic accident.
671_philadelphia philadelphia pulled into the path of a westbound tractor-trailer truck in  , , and his car was struck in the passenger side.
672_philadelphia philadelphia He suffered trauma to his brain, chest and lungs.
673_philadelphia philadelphia The orbital b around  of his eyes was fractured, as were  ribs and his sternum.
674_philadelphia philadelphia He spent over   in the intensive cre unit, nd ws relesed from MetroHelth Hospitl in .
675_philadelphia philadelphia He was cited for failure to stop at a stop sign.
676_philadelphia philadelphia reason for the fire's duration was the lack of national standards in fire-fighting equipment.
677_philadelphia philadelphia Although fire engines from nearby cities (such as  and , as well as units from  , , and  ) responded, many were useless because their hose couples failed to fit  hydrants.
678_philadelphia philadelphia As a result, the fire burned over  , destroying  buildings and spanning  city blocks.
679_philadelphia philadelphia Late on    the Great Fire of   broke out.
680_philadelphia philadelphia The temperature was below  (F), and gale force winds were blowing.
681_philadelphia philadelphia , some called from as far away as , were at  helpless to battle the wind driven fire due to icing lines and pumps.
682_philadelphia philadelphia The fire leveled most of the city below Canal Street.
683_philadelphia philadelphia Some merchandise was carried to churches that were thought fireproof, but several of these burned anyway.
684_philadelphia philadelphia Eventually the fire was controlled by blowing up buildings in the fire's path.
