As seen in the 1700 quake, the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake, and the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake, subduction zone earthquakes can cause large tsunamis, and many coastal areas in the region have prepared tsunami evacuation plans in anticipation of a possible future Cascadia earthquake.
However, the major nearby cities, notably Seattle, Portland, Vancouver, Victoria, and Tacoma, which are located on inland waterways rather than on the coast, would be sheltered from the full brunt of a tsunami.
These cities do have many vulnerable structures, especially bridges and unreinforced brick buildings; consequently, most of the damage to the cities would probably be from the earthquake itself.
One expert asserts that buildings in Seattle are vastly inadequate even to withstand an earthquake of the size of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake, much less the much greater one that may well occur.

The quake ruptured a substantial portion of the southern San Andreas, but not the entire length.
Thomas Jordan, director of the Southern California Earthquake Center, stated that the slip likely stopped in the area near Cajon Pass, perhaps because the tectonic stresses on that part of the fault had been released several decades earlier during the 1812 Wrightwood earthquake.
The average slip along the fault was 4.5 meters (15 feet), and a maximum offset of 9 meters (30 feet) was recorded in the Carrizo Plain area in southeastern San Luis Obispo County.
The amount of fault slip gives this earthquake a moment magnitude of 7.9, comparable to that of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake.
The extreme southernmost portion of the fault, which terminates near Bombay Beach at the Salton Sea, last ruptured in 1680.

The earthquake occurred at 7:53 a.m. on October 21, 1868.
Its epicenter was likely located near Hayward, California, and its magnitude has been estimated to have been 6.8&ndash;7.0 on the Richter scale.
At the surface, ground rupture was traced for 20 miles, from San Leandro to what is now the Warm Springs District in Fremont.
The USGS estimates that Hayward experienced shaking measuring IX on the modified Mercalli scale.
San Leandro experienced shaking measuring VIII, while San Francisco and Oakland experienced shaking measuring VII.
The town of Hayward experienced the most damage, with nearly every building destroyed or significantly damaged in the earthquake.
The Alameda County Courthouse in San Leandro was destroyed, which resulted in the re-location of the County Seat to Oakland, its current site.
The adobe chapel of Mission San José in what is now Fremont was also destroyed, as were several buildings in San Jose, San Francisco and throughout Alameda County.
Damage was reported from Santa Rosa in the north to Gilroy and Santa Cruz in the south.
Thirty deaths were attributed to the earthquake.

The "1868 Hayward earthquake" was the last large earthquake to occur on the Hayward Fault Zone in the San Francisco Bay Area, California, United States.
It caused significant damage throughout the region, and was known as the "Great San Francisco Earthquake" prior to the 1906 San Francisco earthquake and fire.

The "Great Lone Pine earthquake" was one of the largest earthquakes to hit California in recorded history.
The quake struck on March 26, 1872 and its epicenter was near Lone Pine, California in Owens Valley.
The true size of this earthquake is not known, but historical evidence detailing the damage it caused in settlements and landforms near the epicenter, and the geographic extent to which noticeable movement was felt, leads researchers to estimate a Richter magnitude of 7.6 to 8 or greater &mdash; similar in size to the 1906 San Francisco earthquake.

Dalessandro grants his book was partially inspired by a 1989 non-fiction work by Gladys Hansen, curator of the Museum of the City of San Francisco.
When looking for research materials in 1996, he found "Denial of Disaster: The Untold Story and Photographs of the San Francisco Earthquake and Fire of 1906" in a bookstore.
He also explained use of meticulous personal research.
Book scenes with people lying in shock in Golden Gate Park after the quake while surrounded by their possessions was inspired by fact.
Enrico Caruso was found wandering in the park, having slept the night there after the Palace Hotel was destroyed.
Dalessandro granted a lot of research but use of imagination as well.
The novel's depictions were pieced together from letters and observations.
In reflecting on how some persons took bathtubs out of their damaged homes, placed them on roller skates, and then filed the tubs with possessions, he noted that the displaced persons would save what was valuable to them... their favorite skillet, grandfather clocks, and pets.
When asked to describe 1906 San Francisco, Dalessandro offered that it was "Paris and part Dodge City", expanding that at the time the city "was urbane and sophisticated" while at the same time being The Barbary Coast and fistfights.
In handling the then-existing corruption and  investigations in San Francisco, he condensed actual situations that had developed over many months into a shorter timespan and with a changing of names.
Dalessandro also notes that his researches found the claimed death toll of 478 persons killed by the quake and fire, held as an official count for over 100 years, to be inaccurate.
In 2005 the San Francisco Board of Supervisors granted a petition from he and Hansen, and raised the count to over 3,000.

The Japanese colonial authorities in Taipei sent teams of medical personnel to assist, and Campbell reported that shortly after the earthquake reconstruction efforts were well advanced.
At the time some writers suggested a link between the Meishan quake and the great 1906 San Francisco earthquake, which occurred a month later, while some religious groups linked it not only with the San Francisco disaster, but also an earlier earthquake in Cambria, Italy and other natural disasters as a sign of the end-times.

The earthquake and fire would leave a long-standing and significant impression on the development of California.
At the time of the disaster, San Francisco had been the ninth-largest city in the United States and the largest on the West Coast, with a population of about 410,000.
Over a period of 60 years, the city had become the financial, trade and cultural center of the West; operated the busiest port on the West Coast; and was the "gateway to the Pacific", through which growing US economic and military power was projected into the Pacific and Asia.
Over 80% of the city was destroyed by the earthquake and fire.
Though San Francisco would rebuild quickly, the disaster would divert trade, industry and population growth south to Los Angeles, which during the 20th century would become the largest and most important urban area in the West.
In addition, many of the city's leading poets and writers retreated to Carmel-by-the-Sea where, as "The Barness", they established the arts colony reputation that continues today.

The 1908 Lawson Report, a study of the 1906 quake led and edited by Professor Andrew Lawson of the University of California, showed that the very same San Andreas Fault which had caused the disaster in San Francisco ran close to Los Angeles as well.
The earthquake was the first natural disaster of its magnitude to be documented by photography and motion picture footage.
Moreover, it occurred at a time when the science of seismology was blossoming.
The overall cost of the damage from the earthquake was estimated at the time to be around US$400 million ($8.2 billion in 2009 dollars).

Although the impact of the earthquake on San Francisco was the most famous, the earthquake also inflicted considerable damage on several other cities.
These include San Jose and Santa Rosa, the entire downtown of which was essentially destroyed.

A strong foreshock preceded the mainshock by about 20 to 25 seconds.
The strong shaking of the main shock lasted about 42 seconds.
The shaking intensity as described on the Modified Mercalli intensity scale reached VIII in San Francisco and up to IX in areas to the north like Santa Rosa where destruction was devastating.
There were decades of minor earthquakes – more than at any other time in the historical record for northern California – before the 1906 quake.
Widely interpreted previously as precursory activity to the 1906 earthquake, they have been found to have a strong seasonal pattern and have been postulated to be due to large seasonal sediment loads in coastal bays that overlie faults as a result of the erosion caused by "hydraulic mining" in the later years of the California Gold Rush.

Due to a widespread practice by insurers to indemnify San Francisco properties from fire, but not earthquake damage, most of the destruction in the city was blamed on the fires.
Some property owners deliberately set fire to damaged properties, in order to claim them on their insurance.
Capt.
Leonard D. Wildman of the U.S. Army Signal Corps reported that he "was stopped by a fireman who told me that people in that neighborhood were firing their houses… they were told that they would not get their insurance on buildings damaged by the earthquake unless they were damaged by fire."

As water mains were also broken, the city fire department had few resources with which to fight the fires.
Several fires in the downtown area merged to become one giant inferno.
Brigadier General Frederick Funston, commander of the Presidio of San Francisco and a resident of San Francisco, tried to bring the fire under control by detonating blocks of buildings around the fire to create firebreaks with all sorts of means, ranging from black powder and dynamite to even artillery barrages.
Often the explosions set the ruins on fire or helped spread it.

Property losses from the disaster have been estimated to be more than $400 million.
An insurance industry source tallies insured losses at $235 million (equivalent to $ in  dollars).
Political and business leaders strongly downplayed the effects of the earthquake, fearing loss of outside investment in the city which was badly needed to rebuild.
In his first public statement, California governor George C. Pardee emphasized the need to rebuild quickly: "This is not the first time that San Francisco has been destroyed by fire, I have not the slightest doubt that the City by the Golden Gate will be speedily rebuilt, and will, almost before we know it, resume her former great activity."
The earthquake itself is not even mentioned in the statement.
Fatality and monetary damage estimates were manipulated.

In the rush to rebuild the city, building standards were first made much more stringent, but after about a year, they were in fact relaxed, instead of strengthened, "by upwards of 50%" according to historian Robert Hansen.
The History Channel International series "Mega Disasters" attributes the rollback of the strict codes to complaints by contractors under duress from city fathers for the slow rate of reconstruction.
In the report, the building codes were taken back off the books in only 13 months, while the official death toll was placed at a mere 379—which estimates raised plenty of eyebrows even at the time, as it was undoubtedly the most photographed disaster then known to mankind, and the damage suggests far more would have been trapped as is backed by anecdotal stories of many being trapped in fallen buildings then consumed by flames.
For over forty years now, research by a San Francisco librarian has amassed a death toll well in excess of three thousand, and she has opined the effort will go on for years more.
Part of the rush to rebuild was the desire to be ready for the Panama-Pacific International Exposition set to be hosted in 1915, and indeed by that year there was almost no visible damage to be seen in the city.
This general disregard for earthquake safety still has effects for the city today, as a majority of buildings now standing in the city were built in the first half of the 20th century to the lax codes.
Building standards did not reach even 1906 levels until the 1950s.
A detailed analysis of the city today estimates that an earthquake less powerful than the 1906 quake would completely destroy many sections of the city and result in thousands of deaths.

At the time, 375 deaths were reported.
However, that figure was fabricated by government officials who felt that reporting the true death toll would hurt real estate prices and efforts to rebuild the city.
In addition, hundreds of casualties in Chinatown went ignored and unrecorded; that number is still uncertain today, estimated to be roughly 3,000 at minimum.
Most of the deaths occurred in San Francisco itself, but 189 were reported elsewhere in the Bay Area; nearby cities, such as Santa Rosa and San Jose also suffered severe damages.
In Monterey County, the earthquake permanently shifted the course of the Salinas River near its mouth.
Where previously the river emptied into Monterey Bay between Moss Landing and Watsonville, it was diverted 6 miles south to a new outlet just north of Marina.

The "San Francisco earthquake of 1906" was a major earthquake that struck San Francisco and the coast of Northern California at 5:12 a.m. on Wednesday, April 18, 1906.
Devastating fires broke out in the city and lasted for several days.
As a result of the quake and fires, about 3,000 people died and over 80% of San Francisco was destroyed.

For a number of years, the epicenter of the quake was assumed to be near the town of Olema, in the Point Reyes area of Marin County, because of evidence of the degree of local earth displacement.
In the 1960s, a seismologist at UC Berkeley proposed that the epicenter was more likely offshore of San Francisco, to the northwest of the Golden Gate.
However, the most recent analysis by the United States Geological Survey (USGS) shows that the most likely epicenter was very near Mussel Rock on the coast of Daly City, an adjacent suburb just south of San Francisco.
An offshore epicenter is supported by the occurrence of a local tsunami recorded by a tidal gauge at the San Francisco Presidio; the wave had an amplitude of approximately 3 in (8 cm) and an approximate period of 40–45 minutes.

The earthquake was the worst single incident for the insurance industry before the September 11, 2001, attacks, and the largest U.S. relief effort ever to this day, including even Hurricane Katrina.
After the 1906 earthquake, a global discussion arose concerning a legally flawless exclusion of the earthquake hazard from fire insurance contracts.
It was pressed ahead mainly by re-insurers.
Their aim was the globally uniform solution of the problem of earthquake hazard in fire insurance contracts.
Until 1910, a few countries, especially in Europe, followed the call for an exclusion of the earthquake hazard from all fire insurance contracts.
In the U.S., however, the question was discussed differently.
But the traumatized public reacted with fierce opposition.
On August 1, 1909, the California Senate enacted the California Standard Form of Fire Insurance Policy, which did not contain any earthquake clause.
Thus the state decided that insurers would have to pay again if another earthquake was followed by fires.
Other earthquake-endangered countries followed the California example.
The insurance payments heavily affected the international financial system.
Gold transfers from European insurance companies to policyholders in San Francisco led to a rise in interest rates, subsequently to a lack of available loans and finally to the Knickerbocker Trust Company crisis of October 1907 which led to the Panic of 1907.

At 9.45am on 27 June, 1906, a powerful earth tremor was felt across much of South Wales, its epicentre being placed just offshore of Port Talbot.
The quake, which struck just a few weeks after the devastating 1906 San Francisco earthquake, was felt as far afield as Ilfracombe, Birmingham and southwest Ireland.

Andrew Goodlife, professor of geological sciences at the University of Alabama believes Alabama is at "high" risk from earthquakes.
He also claims that "If there is an earthquake in one of the zone areas, North Alabama is certainly going to feel it.
There's going to be damage and some perhaps major.
If one occurred in the zone close to Memphis, it would be devastating because buildings are not made to withstand earthquakes.
Places like San Francisco are aware of earthquake risks and structures are built to withstand them."
In his definition, the state's earthquakes are "insignificant".
Emergency planner Bill Thomison is skeptical of a major earthquake, stating that "I don't believe there are any major faults (interface of rocks) here.
It depends on the magnitude of the earthquake and the Richter scale.
You could have a No. 4 (magnitude) earthquake in California and not damage anything, but the same type in New York could be devastating because the building codes don't factor in earthquakes."

Although the exact cause was never determined, the fire began in the undeveloped chaparral and grasslands of Wildcat Canyon, just east of the ridgeline of the Berkeley Hills, and was propelled over the ridge and southwestward just south of Codornices Creek by a strong, gusty, and intensely dry northeasterly wind.
The fire quickly blew up as it swept through the La Loma Park and Northside neighborhoods of Berkeley, overwhelming the capabilities of the Berkeley Fire Department to stop it.
A number of UC students fought the advance of the fire as it approached the north edge of the University of California campus at Hearst Avenue.
The other edge of the fire was fought by firefighters as it advanced on downtown Berkeley along the east side of Shattuck Avenue north of University Avenue.
Firefighters were rushed in from neighboring Oakland while San Francisco sent firefighters by ferry across the bay.
The fire was halted when the gusty northeast wind was suddenly stopped by the cool, humid afternoon seabreeze.

The Southern Pacific Company Railroad tracks were damaged in a number of places between Ventura,  (mile 598 as measured from San Francisco)  and Gaviota (mile 331).
In particular, a portion between Naples and Santa Barbara was badly damaged and displaced.
Seaside bluffs fell into the ocean and a slight tidal wave was noted by offshore ships.
The town was completely cut off from telephone and telegraph, news from the outside world arrived by shortwave radio.
The absence of post earthquake fire permitted scientists and geologists to study earthquake damages on various types of construction.

The "1938 Yosemite TWA crash" was the crash and disappearance of a Transcontinental & Western Air Douglas DC-2 on March 1, 1938.
During a scheduled passenger flight from San Francisco to Winslow, Arizona, TWA's interstate hub, the flight encountered severe weather and radioed their intention to land in nearby Fresno.
The aircraft never arrived, and was found three months later having crashed into a mountain in Yosemite National Park.

The aircraft was flying from San Francisco to Winslow which was a hub connecting TWA's transcontinental Los Angeles-New York route.
It departed San Francisco in clear, overcast skies with a cloud ceiling between , and had sufficient fuel to last until midnight.

This earthquake, larger than the 1906 San Francisco earthquake, is Canada's largest earthquake recorded by seismometers.
However, the greatest earthquake in Canadian history was the 1700 Cascadia earthquake, a megathrust earthquake that occurred along the Pacific Northwest coast from Northern California to southwestern British Columbia which reached magnitude 9 on the Richter magnitude scale.

On February 13, 1950, a Convair B-36B, serial number "44-92075" assigned to the 7th Bomb Wing at Carswell Air Force Base, crashed in northern British Columbia after jettisoning a Mark 4 nuclear bomb.
This was the first such nuclear weapon loss in history.
The Convair had been en route from Eielson Air Force Base near Fairbanks, Alaska to Carswell AFB in Fort Worth, Texas, on a mission that included a simulated nuclear attack on San Francisco, California.

The "1952 Kern County earthquake" occurred on July 21, 1952, in Kern County, California, with a magnitude of 7.3 on the moment magnitude scale.
It was the largest earthquake to strike Southern California since the Fort Tejon earthquake of 1857 and the 1872 Lone Pine earthquake, causing immense and widespread damage.
The main shock killed 12 people, injured 18 and caused more than $50 million in property damage.
Damage occurred as far away as Los Angeles, where six people were killed.
It was followed by several aftershocks, at least 20 of which were magnitude 5.0 or greater, including a magnitude 5.8 on August 22 that killed two more people.
The quake occurred on the White Wolf Fault and was the strongest quake in California since the 1906 San Francisco earthquake.

The airspace over the canyon was not under any type of radar surveillance and there were no homing beacons or "black boxes" (cockpit voice and flight data recorders) aboard either aircraft.
The last position reports received from the flights did not reflect their locations at the time of impact.
Also, there were no credible witnesses to the collision itself or the subsequent crashes.
The only immediate indication of trouble was when United company radio operators in Salt Lake City and San Francisco heard a garbled transmission from flight 718, the last from either aircraft.
Civil Aeronautics Board (CAB) accident investigation engineers later deciphered the transmission&mdash;which had been preserved on magnetic tape&mdash;as the voice of co-pilot Robert Harms declaring, "Salt Lake, [ah], 718...we are going in!" The shrill voice of Captain Shirley was heard in the background as, futilely struggling with the controls, he implored the plane to "[Pull] up! [Pull] up!" (bracketed words were inferred by investigators from the context and circumstances in which they were uttered).

The first hurricane of the season was identified by the National Weather Bureau in San Francisco, California on July 15.
The previous day, the "S.S. Garvel Park" recorded sustained winds of 50 mph (85 km/h) when it was situated roughly 75 mi (120 km) south of Manzanillo, Mexico.
Although listed as a Category 1 hurricane for its entire known existence by the Atlantic hurricane database, the storm was not confirmed to have attained hurricane intensity until July 21.
The storm took a steady westward track during the early portion of its existence in response to a strong ridge located north of Hawaii.
On July 18, the National Weather Bureau discontinued advisories on the storm as no information on it was being received.

The "1965 Carmel mid-air collision" occurred on December 4, 1965 when "Eastern Air Lines Flight 853" (N6218C), a Lockheed Super Constellation en route from Boston Logan International Airport to Newark International Airport, collided in mid-air with "Trans World Airlines Flight 42" (N748TW), a Boeing 707-131B en route from San Francisco International Airport to John F. Kennedy International Airport, over Carmel, New York, USA.

At 04:56 and 06:19 UTC on October 2, 1969 (21:56 and 23:19 PDT October 1), a pair of earthquakes of magnitude 5.6 and 5.7, respectively, struck the city of Santa Rosa, California, killing one person and damaging buildings.
The maximum felt intensity for the two events was VII (very strong) and VIII (destructive) respectively on the Mercalli intensity scale.
The $8.35 million cost of the earthquakes went mostly to replace buildings damaged beyond repair.
There were at least 200 aftershocks after the initial pair of earthquakes.
At the time they were the largest earthquakes to affect the northern San Francisco Bay Area since the 1906 San Francisco earthquake.

The current tectonics of northern California are mainly controlled by the San Andreas Fault system, the zone of dextral strike-slip faulting that accommodates displacement between the North American Plate and the Pacific Plate along this transform boundary.
In addition to the San Andreas Fault itself there are numerous other sub-parallel dextral strike-slip faults that take up some of the plate boundary motion distributed through a zone more than 100 km wide.
The 1969 earthquakes and most of their aftershocks occurred along the Healdsburg Fault, which lies between the Maacama Fault and the Rodgers Creek Fault, linked to them by right step-overs.
These faults may form a continuation of the Hayward Fault Zone north of San Francisco Bay.

The "1984 Morgan Hill Earthquake" (also "Halls Valley Earthquake") was a magnitude 6.2 earthquake that occurred on April 24, 1984 at 1:15 p.m. local time, in the south San Francisco Bay Area, California.
The epicenter of the quake was located near Mount Hamilton in the Diablo Range of the California Coast Ranges, although nearby communities, including Morgan Hill, sustained serious damage.
Damages from the earthquake totaled US$7 million, not taking into account damages to high-tech industrial facilities.

While not on or near any fault line like San Francisco or Los Angeles, Mexico City is vulnerable to earthquakes.
The main reason for this is the surface geology of the area, especially the downtown area.
The city grew from an island in the middle of Lake Texcoco outward, as this lake was eventually drained.
The near surface geology of this area is classified into three sections: the old lake bed which is soft clay from volcanic ash with a high water content, a piedmont area, much of which is  capped by 5 to 30 meters of lava less than 2,500 years old, and an old river delta area.

The "Loma Prieta earthquake", also known as the "Quake of '89" and the "World Series Earthquake", was a major earthquake that struck the San Francisco Bay Area of California on October 17, 1989, at 5:04 pm local time.
Caused by a slip along the San Andreas Fault, the quake lasted 10–15 seconds and measured 6.9 both on the moment magnitude scale (surface-wave magnitude 7.1) and on the open-ended Richter Scale.
The quake killed 63 people throughout northern California, injured 3,757 and left some 3,000–12,000 people homeless.

Hilda gradually weakened over cool waters but maintained a rather large level of circulation.
This caused its dissipation to be slower than normal.
Tropical Depression Hilda dissipated on August 14.
It large remnant circulation continued northwards and eventually passed over California.
There were no casualties or damages attributed to this tropical cyclone.
Hilda's remnants caused rain as far north as San Francisco.

The earthquake caused landslides throughout the Honeydew and Petrolia areas.
It reached a maximum intensity of VIII on the Modified Mercalli Scale at Ferndale, Honeydew, Rio Dell, Petrolia, and Scotia.
The earthquake was felt as far away as Reno, Nevada, and San Francisco.

Detachments of the 1st Aero Squadron returned to Fort Crockett, Texas, on April 30, 1914 when the Tampico Affair threatened war again, although they arrived too late to be transshipped to Mexico and their aircraft were never uncrated, and to Brownsville in March 1915 when civil war broke out between Francisco "Pancho" Villa and the government of Venustiano Carranza.
Now a unit of the Aviation Section, U.S. Signal Corps, the squadron transferred by rail on 29 July 1915, to Fort Sill, Oklahoma, to learn artillery spotting using new Curtiss JN-2s.
A fatal crash occurred on 12 August, followed by a second crash on 5 September after protests about its safety were overruled by squadron commander Capt.
Benjamin D. Foulois.
The six surviving JN-2s were grounded until 14 October, when they were converted to the newer JN-3.
The squadron flew to Fort Sam Houston, San Antonio, Texas, on 15 November 1915.

Great earthquakes such as the Sumatra-Andaman event, which are invariably associated with megathrust events in subduction zones, have seismic moments that can account for a significant fraction of the global earthquake moment across century-scale time periods.
Of all the seismic moment released by earthquakes in the 100 years from 1906 through 2005, roughly one-eighth was due to the Sumatra-Andaman event.
This quake, together with the Good Friday Earthquake (Alaska, 1964) and the Great Chilean Earthquake (1960), account for almost half of the total moment.
The much smaller but still catastrophic 1906 San Francisco earthquake is included in the diagram below for perspective.
Mw denotes the magnitude of an earthquake on the moment magnitude scale.

The Alum Rock earthquake was the largest in the San Francisco Bay Area since the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake, which measured 6.9 on the moment magnitude scale.
Ground shaking from the Alum Rock quake reached San Francisco and Oakland and other points further north.

ElarmS, an earthquake early warning system, accurately predicted the quake seconds before it struck, correctly estimating the quake's magnitude to within 0.5 magnitude units using only three to four seconds worth of data.
Scientists with the California Integrated Seismic Network hope to refine the system to provide a 10-second warning in a similar quake to residents of Oakland and San Francisco.

An area of disturbed weather formed about  south-southeast of Hong Kong early on September 19.
It was recognised as a minor tropical depression by the JMA on the 21st, and upgraded to a full depression on the 23rd.
The JTWC recognised Tropical Depression 15W at the same time.
Nine hours after being declared a full depression, the JMA and the JTWC upgraded it to Tropical Storm Francisco.
The storm traveled due west and over Wenchang on Hainan Island on September 24.
Land interaction and moderate wind shear caused Francisco to weaken to a tropical depression as warnings were discontinued.
The name 'Francisco' was submitted by the United States and is a common Chamorro man's name.
A ship, carrying eight people sank over the South China Sea during the storm.
Two of the people on the ship were rescued but the other six were listed as missing.

The "2007 San Francisco International Airport runway incursion" occurred around 1:30 pm PST on May 26, 2007 when SkyWest Airlines (operating as United Express) Flight 5741 (SKW5741), an Embraer EMB 120 Brasilia turboprop aircraft, nearly collided with Republic Airlines (operating as Frontier Airlines) Flight 4912, an Embraer 170 Regional Jet, at the intersection of runways 1L and 28R at San Francisco International Airport (SFO), South San Francisco, California.

Southern California is at slightly higher risk than Northern California: The chance that a magnitude-6.7 quake will strike greater Los Angeles is 67 percent.
The probability of the same sized temblor striking the San Francisco area is 63 percent.
Experts say that the fault with the highest probability — 59 percent likelihood — of generating at least one 6.7 or larger quake is the southern portion of the San Andreas Fault, which runs 1,300 kilometers across southern and western California, including beneath the eastern suburbs of Los Angeles.
In Northern California, the Hayward-Rodgers Creek fault zone is the most likely to shake, with a 31 percent chance of generating at least a 6.7 quake.
The Hayward fault zone runs beneath eastern San Francisco and the East Bay suburbs, including Berkeley and Oakland.
The last major earthquake on this fault was in 1868, but activity in October 2007 rattled San Jose and other Bay Area cities.

Italian laboratory technician Giampaolo Giuliani predicted a major earthquake on Italian television a month before, after measuring increased levels of radon emitted from the ground.
He was accused of being alarmist by the Director of the Civil Defence, Guido Bertolaso, and forced to remove his findings from the Internet (old data and descriptions are still on line).
He was also reported to police a week before the main quake for "causing fear" among the local population when he predicted an earthquake was imminent in Sulmona, about  from L'Aquila, on 30 March, after a 4° quake happened, (later Sulmona only suffered minor damages by the 6 April earthquake).
Enzo Boschi, the head of the Italian National Geophysics Institute declared: ""Every time there is an earthquake there are people who claim to have predicted it.
As far as I know nobody predicted this earthquake with precision.
It is not possible to predict earthquakes.""
Predicting earthquakes based on radon emissions has been studied by scientists since the 1970s, but enthusiasm for it had faded due to inconsistent results.
In December 2009, Giuliani presented his research, without many important details, to the American Geophysical Union in San Francisco; the union subsequently invited him to take part in developing a worldwide seismic early warning system.
On his return home, the Italian authorities lifted the gagging injunctions against his predictions.

After his victory in the qualification race, Vernay started from pole position with Ericsson starting alongside, with Mortara and Bottas on row two.
Due to damage inflicted in his spectacular accident the previous day, Boyd didn't start, thus leaving the grid at 28 cars.
Once again, Ericsson made an awful getaway, with Bottas and Mortara both slotting in behind a fast-starting Vernay.
Into Lisboa, Ricciardo got alongside Ericsson as they battled for fourth with the Australian brushing the wall and the two continued side-by-side into San Francisco, with Ricciardo again nudging the wall.
Behind them, Vanthoor left his braking way too late for Lisboa, and mounted over Chilton, which caused the teenage Briton to retire on the spot.
Ricciardo's clip with the wall caused a left-rear puncture, but he managed to carry on up the hill, until he crashed at the entrance to the Solitude Esses.
His car rebounded off the wall, and into direct line of the rest of the field.
No less than half a dozen cars impacted with the stricken car, and blocked the track which ultimately led to a red flag, and a race suspension.
Also taken out in the incident were the third Carlin of Hartley, the Premas of Coletti and Zampieri, the Fortecs of Rosenzweig and McKenzie, and Ho.
Imperatori was also involved, returning to the pits for a lengthy period, but returned to complete three laps towards the end.
Vanthoor, with a damaged front wheel after his collision with Chilton, stopped just short of the accident site, and was thus able to continue in the race.

After hitting the wall on countless occasions over the previous two days, Chen was withdrawn from the race due to a cracked monocoque.
Thus, this left the grid at 29 for the 10-lap race, and Vernay got the jump on Ericsson away from the start-finish line, and took the lead into the first corner, but by the time the drivers had reached Lisboa, Ericsson was back in front just as the safety car came out.
Further back, Bianchi rode over the rear wheel of Mortara at San Francisco, causing enough damage for the Frenchman to pit.
Rosenzweig collided with the barriers at the Mandarin, which brought the safety car out for three laps.
Arundel's Carlin car encountered mechanical troubles under the safety car, after some debris punctured a hole in the radiator of his Volkswagen engine.
This left the order as Ericsson, Vernay, Mortara (who moved up despite his collision), Bottas, Ricciardo, Vanthoor, Bird, Coletti, Mäki and Hartley.
Boyd moved up five positions at the start, as he was the biggest winner off the line.

Aeroméxico Flight 665, a Boeing 737–752, registration XA-NAM, suffers a nosewheel collapse on pushback at San Francisco International Airport.
The aircraft is substantially damaged.

The media have remarked on the lack of casualties, despite the close parallels of the quake to incidents that have had devastating consequences in other countries, such as the 1989 San Francisco Quake, that killed 63 people and was magnitude 7.1 also.
The analysis especially compared the Canterbury quake with the 2010 Haiti earthquake, which also occurred in similar proximity to an urban area, also occurred at shallow depth under the surface, and was of very similar strength.
Unlike many tens of thousands of deaths in Haiti (with some estimates placing the death toll at one in ten or higher), no deaths directly attributable to the earthquake were reported in New Zealand.
This was ascribed to the fact that the quake happened in the early hours of a Saturday morning, when most people were asleep in timber framed homes, and "...there would almost certainly have been many deaths and serious injuries had it happened during a busy time of the day...".
Another important factor was building practices which took earthquakes into account, starting after the 1848 Marlborough earthquake and the 1855 Wairarapa earthquake, both of which badly affected Wellington.
These led to formal standards after the 1931 Hawke's Bay earthquake, which have since been progressively updated.
By contrast, Haiti's much lower standard codes were poorly enforced and many buildings were made of hand-made non-reinforced concrete, which is extremely vulnerable to seismic damage.
Ground shaking in populated areas of Canterbury was also generally less strong than for the Haiti quake.

The "2010 San Bruno pipeline explosion" occurred at 6:11 pm PDT on September 9, 2010, in San Bruno, California, a suburb of San Francisco, when a 30 inch diameter steel natural gas pipeline owned by Pacific Gas & Electric exploded in flames in the Crestmoor residential neighborhood  west of San Francisco International Airport near Skyline Boulevard and San Bruno Avenue.
The loud roar and shaking led some residents of the area, first responders, and news media to initially believe that it was an earthquake or that a large jetliner had crashed.
It took crews nearly an hour to determine it was a gas pipeline explosion.
As of September 29, 2010, the death toll was eight people.
The U.S. Geological Survey registered the explosion and resulting shock wave as a magnitude 1.1 earthquake.
Eye witnesses reported the initial blast "had a wall of fire more than 1,000 feet high".

In the second 45-minute practice session, Wittmann and Merhi fought for the top spot again as the track had dried out from earlier rain, and drivers were able to use slick tyres for the first time in the meeting.
Wittmann came out on top by three tenths of a second, ahead of Merhi.
Juncadella, Sainz and Nasr filled out the rest of the top five, the only other drivers to be within a second of the pace set by Wittmann.
The session had to be stopped three times due to crashes, as Félix da Costa crashed early on at Moorish, Merhi hit the barriers at San Francisco after running wide, and team-mate Juncadella also crashed into the barriers late on.
Juncadella also became another driver to be penalised three places on the grid for illegally crossing the pit lane exit line.

;May 14, 2012 — San Francisco to Santa Cruz County,  —  Intermediate stage The stage included two major climbs: racers were faced with the Empire Grade difficulty (Category 1) at  from the start, and they tackled with the Bear Creek climb (Category 2) at the  mark.
Race leader Peter Sagan was part of a crash that occurred near the top of the Empire Grade climb, but he could recover and got back on his bike after some on-the-fly repairs by the team's mechanic.
Alexandre Geniez from  was part of an early break with 5 other riders and was the lone surviving escapee, but was caught on the last climb of the day with  to go.
He was rewarded for his efforts with the "Most Aggressive rider" jersey.
A bunch composed of about 60 units came charging in Santa Cruz, with all the overall classification contenders present.
Rory Sutherland from  broke away with about  to cover in a bid to win the stage and the 10 seconds bonus given to the victor, but his effort proved to be in vain as he was reeled back in shortly after the  mark.
The  train dragged Sagan to the last corner, a right bend with the finish line only a couple hundred meters away.
Sagan was first out of the corner and accelerated to the finish, taking his second victory in a row.

The squadron was activated on 12 May 1915 by the Aviation Section, U.S. Signal Corps at Rockwell Field, San Diego, California, but not organized or manned until December, pending the allotment of funds for the construction of facilities in the Philippines.
It was organized as a single company of six officers and 37 men and sailed from San Francisco for Manila on 5 January 1916.
After two weeks of quarantine, the unit reached its station on Corregidor on 14 February without aircraft.
It received four Martin S-Hydro seaplanes (Signal Corps numbers 56-59) on 13 March and 15 April, and began flying on 8 May 1916.
A radio transmitter was set up in one aircraft, giving the aircraft a broadcast range of 29 miles.
On 28 June, the company provided artillery spotting and adjustment for target practice with the Fort Mills batteries.
Personnel for a second company were assembled and the unit was redesignated the 2d Aero Squadron on 20 July 1917.

Squadron moved to California in 1935 and was assigned to the new Hamilton Field near San Francisco, as part of the 12th Observation Group.
Became a coastal patrol squadron operating amphibian aircraft, then began to operate modern Martin B-10 bombers in 1936 in the reconnaissance mission when attached as the fourth squadron of the 7th Bombardment Group, 1st Wing, General Headquarters Air Force.
The squadron dropped food and supplies and flew photographic missions in connection with flood-relief operations in central California, December 12–13, 1937; upgraded to the B-18 Bolo in 1938, and in 1939 to early-model Boeing B-17B Flying Fortress for long range reconnaissance patrols.
Moved to Fort Douglas, Utah in 1940 when the short runways at Hamilton proved inadequate for B-17 operations, with a secondary move to Salt Lake City Army Air Base in January 1941 where it was upgraded to the B-17E.

On 2 May 1947, it was again reformed as the 505th Aircraft Control and Warning Group (ACWG).
Stationed at McChord Field (later Air Force Base), Washington, the group was activated under the Air Defense Command, becoming the first post-World War II air control and warning unit.
For the remainder of 1947 the group supported two radar stations, one at Arlington, Washington, and one at Half Moon Bay near San Francisco.
These stations worked with fighter squadrons to perfect ground-control and interception techniques.
The group included a fleet of B-25 Mitchells used extensively to perform radar calibration flights.
The experience gained from operating the two sites proved invaluable to air defense planners who were in the process of designing a nationwide early warning radar network.

Soon after, while Caldwell visits Fowler in a San Francisco hospital to snap him out of his depression, he receives a call from the operations chief saying that an unidentified aircraft is "on final approach, no emergency declared."
Suspecting another ORI, Caldwell orders the officer to notify the battle staff at once.
Caldwell cannot return to base fast enough, however, and Farr must assume command in his absence.
In this capacity, Farr makes a key decision: to launch a B-52 which cannot produce full power on one of its engines, a violation of peacetime flight safety regulations, because "We're simulating wartime conditions."

An expert on the danger of fire, in 1899 The Roebling Construction Company published the first of many articles and books by Himmelwright concerning fireproof construction, [http://books.google.com/books?id=jFADAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA409&lpg=PA409&dq=Tests+of+the+Roebling+System+of+Fireproof+Construction&source=web&ots=ZqwtA-AMgf&sig=Xr8Qq-dS5sDr_v6jFZp9-t-P4RE&hl=en&sa=X&oi=book_result&resnum=1&ct=result "Tests of the Roebling System of Fireproof Construction"].
In 1906, The Roebling Construction Company sought to reinforce its brand and expertise in fireproof development when it published the Himmelwright book,  [http://userwww.sfsu.edu/~szwald/bibliography.htm "The San Francisco Earthquake and Fire : A Brief History of the Disaster ; A Presentation of Facts and Resulting Phenomena, With Special Reference to the Efficiency of Building Materials, Lessons of the Disaster"].

The Central Valley experiences hypothetical flooding 300 miles long and 20 or more miles wide.
Serious flooding also occurs in Orange County, Los Angeles County, San Diego, the San Francisco Bay area, and other coastal communities.
Windspeeds in some places reach 125 miles per hour, hurricane-force winds.
Across wider areas of the state, winds reach 60 miles per hour.
Hundreds of landslides damage roads, highways, and homes.
Property damage exceeds $300 billion, most from flooding.
Demand surge (an increase in labor rates and other repair costs after major natural disasters) could increase property losses by 20 percent.
Agricultural losses and other costs to repair lifelines, dewater (drain) flooded islands, and repair damage from landslides, brings the total direct property loss to nearly $400 billion, of which $20 to $30 billion would be recoverable through public and commercial insurance.
Power, water, sewer, and other lifelines experience damage that takes weeks or months to restore.
Flooding evacuation could involve 1.5 million residents in the inland region and delta counties.
Business interruption costs reach $325 billion in addition to the $400 billion property repair costs, meaning that an ARkStorm could cost on the order of $725 billion, which is nearly 3 times the loss deemed to be realistic by the ShakeOut authors for a severe southern California earthquake, an event with roughly the same annual occurrence probability.

During Summer 2005, the Archdiocese of San Francisco sold the building that housed St. Brigid Catholic Church to the Academy of Art University.
St. Brigid Church, which first opened as a parish in 1864 and survived the 1906 San Francisco earthquake and fire, was closed in 1994 by the archdiocese as a cost-saving measure.
The archdiocese closed the church because of declining attendance, repair costs for damage caused by the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake and the need to pay court judgments resulting from the Catholic Church sexual abuse scandal.
The Archdiocese of San Francisco plan for the property was for the building to be demolished and the land redeveloped for housing.
The Academy entered into a purchase agreement so that the historic structure could be preserved.
After a seismic restoration forecast showed that $7 million USD was needed to shore up the church building, the academy petitioned the City of San Francisco to remove the church from the historic landmark registry so that it could proceed with restoring the building.
Several parishioners, who wanted to preserve St. Brigid Church, petitioned the San Francisco Landmarks Preservation Advisory Board to prevent the academy from making changes to the church's exterior and interior features and to preserve the whole of the church as a historic landmark.

At 1 pm the British warships had approached enough to open fire on the "San Francisco", who had hoisted their flag, ready for combat.
The British frigates also hoisted their British flags.
The "San Francisco" then opened fire, but retreating without intermission until 4 pm, suffering the fire of two frigates which successively beat him with grapeshot.
The "San Francisco" could only return the fire with the stern chasers of both batteries, although occasionally she luffed to shoot all their artillery on the frigates, inflicting serious damage.

The English duo was preparing to sail out into the Pacific by the morning of 29 June when two other ships came around Cape San Francisco.
Believing to be Spanish treasure ships from Peru, Hawkins sent his repaired pinnace to reconnoiter, only to see it chased back by Felipón's 14-gun galley-zabra.
De Castro's "San Francisco y Nuestra Señora del Rosario" followed close astern and attempted to run aboard "Dainty" but was checked by a heavy broadside.
In the meanwhile, the pinnace's crew strove to regain their flagship and concentrate forces but was intercepted by the galley-zabra; a few survivors managed to clamber aboard over the bowspirit.
Both sides then exchanged long-range salvos for the next couple of days, the English toppling Felipón's mainmast on 30 June before finally surrendering to the Spaniards by the afternoon of 1 July.
Hawkins suffered half a dozen wounds himself, 27 killed, 17 wounded, and 29 captured among his crew; Spanish losses totaled at 28 dead and 22 injured out of 300.

Stringfellow's son wrote the following: My father had constructed another small model which was finished early in 1848, and having the loan of a long room in a disused lace factory, early in June the small model was moved there for experiments.
The room was about  long and from 10 to  high.
The inclined wire for starting the machine occupied less than half the length of the room and left space at the end for the machine to clear the floor.
In the first experiment the tail was set at too high an angle, and the machine rose too rapidly on leaving the wire.
After going a few yards it slid back as if coming down an inclined plane, at such an angle that the point of the tail struck the ground and was broken.
The tail was repaired and set at a smaller angle.
The steam was again got up, and the machine started down the wire, and, upon reaching the point of self-detachment, it gradually rose until it reached the farther end of the room, striking a hole in the canvas placed to stop it.
In experiments the machine flew well, when rising as much as one in seven.
The late Reverend J. Riste, Esquire, lace manufacturer, Northcote Spicer, Esquire, J. Toms, Esquire, and others witnessed experiments.
Mister Marriatt, late of the San Francisco News Letter brought down from London Mister Ellis, the then leasee of Cremorne Gardens, Mister Partridge, and Lieutenant Gale, the aeronaut, to witness experiments.
Mister Ellis offered to construct a covered way at Cremorne for experiments.
Mr Stringfellow repaired to Cremorne, but not much better accommodations than he had at home were provided, owing to unfulfilled engagement as to room.
Mister Stringfellow was preparing for departure when a party of gentlemen unconnected with the Gardens begged to see an experiment, and finding them able to appreciate his endeavours, he got up steam and started the model down the wire.
When it arrived at the spot where it should leave the wire it appeared to meet with some obstruction, and threatened to come to the ground, but it soon recovered itself and darted off in as fair a flight as it was possible to make at a distance of about , where it was stopped by the canvas.
Having now demonstrated the practicability of making a steam-engine fly, and finding nothing but a pecuniary loss and little honour, this experimenter rested for a long time, satisfied with what he had effected.
The subject, however, had to him special charms, and he still contemplated the renewal of his experiments.

The U.S. Navy had been interested in naval aviation since the turn of the 20th century.
In August 1910 Jacob Earl Fickel did the first experimenting with Glenn Curtiss shooting a gun from an airplane.
In 1910–1911, the Navy conducted experiments which proved the practicality of carrier-based aviation.
On November 14, 1910, near Hampton Roads, Virginia, civilian pilot Eugene Ely took off from a wooden platform installed on the scout cruiser "USS Birmingham" (CL-2).
He landed safely on shore a few minutes later.
Ely proved several months later that it was also possible to land on a ship.
On January 18, 1911, he landed on a platform attached to the American cruiser "USS Pennsylvania" (ACR-4) in San Francisco harbor.

Upon the awakening of Optimus Prime in Dreamwave's first Generation One mini-series, the Aerialbots were among the Autobots summoned by Optimus to rescue the remaining Autobots, who had been turned into mind-controlled weapons of mass destruction by a human arms dealer.
During a subsequent battle with the Decepticons in San Francisco, the Aerialbots, merged as Superion, battled Devastator, but lost when the Decepticon Seekers, hit their weak points, forcing them to separate.
They then sacrificed themselves to stop an incoming nuclear missile, launched by rogue elements in the U.S. military to eradicate both factions of Cybertronians in one fell swoop.

Some economic analysts consider that, ultimately, the catastrophe will improve Japan's economy, with increased job availability during restoration efforts.
An analyst at JPMorgan Chase, citing the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake in the San Francisco Bay Area and the Southern California 1994 Northridge earthquake, noted that natural disasters "do eventually boost output."
An analyst at Société Générale anticipated that Japan's economy will decline in March 2011 but will revive powerfully in subsequent months.
After the Kobe earthquake, industrial output dropped 2.6%, but increased by 2.2% the next month and 1% the following month.
Japan's economy then accelerated substantially through the next two years, at more than its former rate.
Others are of the opinion that the catastrophe will harm the economy.
Some analysts have argued that those who predict that the reconstruction effort could help Japan's economy have fallen prey to the broken window fallacy.
On 24 March, an executive of Bank of Japan's Osaka branch said he expected "a big decline in production, [leading to] an adjustment in the economy initially with exports and inventories falling and imports rising... Demand created by reconstruction projects will emerge after that."
The government said that reconstruction in the ongoing year could raise GDP by 5 trillion yen to 7.75 trillion yen.

Air China recently introduced its new Airbus A330-300 aircraft for long haul operations beginning with services to Düsseldorf, Germany for the summer 2011 schedule.
These aircraft provide the same two-class cabin standard as the Airbus 330-200 except that the economy cabin has no seat-back entertainment system installed (with the exception of the first two economy rows which also have increased legroom).
Düsseldorf is now the third German destination on the Air China network.
The airline will also launch a new Beijing-Milan service starting 15 June 2011.
This service will complement the airline's existing Shanghai Pudong-Milan service.
Deliveries of the carrier's 19 new Boeing 777-300ERs will commence in mid-2011, and Air China stated that the aircraft will form the "backbone of its future longhaul operations".
The new Boeing 777-300ER will ultimately replace Boeing 747–400 on routes to U.S. destinations such as Los Angeles, New York, and San Francisco, but it is expected to first enter service on flights to Paris from March 2012.
The carrier relaunched services from Beijing to Athens with a stopover in Munich using an A330-300 starting 15 May 2011.
Air China has announced that it will commence a second daily Beijing-Los Angeles service with a Boeing 747-400M, while the existing daily Los Angeles service is to be upgraded to Boeing 747-400.
The Boeing 777-300ER will replace both aircraft once sufficient numbers enter the fleet.
Air China also announced that it will expand its operations in India with a Beijing-Mumbai route to plan to begin in September 2011 while the existing Delhi route is upgraded to A330.
The airline, however, will launch service to Mumbai from Chengdu effective 2 May 2012.
The airline announced that it plans to use the Boeing 777-300ER on one of its two daily Beijing-Los Angeles flights beginning 1 February 2012.
Beginning late-2012 and in early 2013, the airline plans to replace the New York and San Francisco routes from the currently operated Boeing 747-400 to the Boeing 777-300ER.

At 9:09 a.m. the pilots of North Dakota Air Guard F-16s of the 119th Fighter Wing were standing by, ready to launch, at Langley AFB, Virginia, located about 130 miles southeast of Washington, DC.
They were at their battle stations because of a growing general concern about the situation that morning.
Seven minutes later the FAA reported that United Airlines Flight 93, outbound from Newark, New Jersey, to San Francisco, California, might also have been hijacked.
The FAA notified the Northeast Air Defense Sector eight minutes later that American Flight 77, a flight from Dulles International Airport, Virginia, near Washington, DC, to Los Angeles, California, also appeared to be the victim of hijackers.
At 9:24 a.m.
Colonel Marr ordered three F-16s (two alert aircraft and a spare) scrambled from Langley to check out an unidentified intermittent aircraft track heading toward Washington DC.
In six minutes the Langley F-16s were airborne.

The international long-haul fleet consists of Boeing 767-300ER, Boeing 777-200ER, Boeing 777-300ER and Boeing 747-400 jet aircraft.
5 Boeing 767 aircraft operate routes to many outer Pacific Islands, Honolulu and Los Angeles, Osaka, and some flights to Australia including all those to Perth.
They all have recently been retrofitted with winglets to increase fuel economy.
8 777-200ER aircraft operate on the majority of the long-haul routes, including Asia, North America, London via Hong Kong, and some Pacific Islands. 5 777-300ER aircraft service London via Los Angeles and Australia.
The 747-400 fleet has been reduced over recent years from 8 to 2 aircraft - these operate to San Francisco, and occasionally to Vancouver and Australia, and will be retired in 2015.

Upon the awakening of Optimus Prime in Dreamwave's first Generation 1 mini-series, the Aerialbots were among the Autobots summoned by Optimus to rescue the remaining Autobots, who had been turned into mind-controlled weapons of mass destruction by a human arms dealer.
During a subsequent battle with the Decepticons in San Francisco, the Aerialbots, merged into Superion, sacrificed themselves to stop an incoming nuclear missile, launched by rogue elements in the U.S. military to eradicate both factions of Cybertronians in one fell swoop.

USAAF aircraft bombed Japan for the first time in mid-April 1942.
In an operation conducted primarily to raise morale in the United States, 16 B-25 Mitchell medium bombers were carried from San Francisco to within range of Japan on the aircraft carrier .
These aircraft were launched on 18 April, and individually bombed targets in Tokyo, Yokohama, Yokosuka, Nagoya and Kobe.
The Japanese air defense units were taken by surprise, and all the B-25s escaped without serious damage.
The aircraft then continued to China and the Soviet Union, though several crashed in Japanese-held territory after running out of fuel.
Japanese casualties were 50 killed and over 400 wounded.
About 200 houses were also destroyed.

The U.S. Post Office also adopted the DH-4 to carry airmail.
In 1919, the DH-4B was standardised by the US Post Office, being modified to be flown from the rear cockpit with a 400 lb (180 kg) watertight mail compartment replacing the forward cockpit.
The airmail DH-4B were later modified with revised landing gear and an enlarged rudder.
DH-4s were used to establish a coast-to-coast, transcontinental airmail service, between San Francisco and New York, a distance of 2,680 mi (4,310 km), involving night flight, the first services starting on 21 August 1924.
The DH-4 continued in Post Office service until 1927, when the last airmail routes were passed to private contractors.

Scheduled Transcontinental Air Mail service flown between New York (Hazelhurst Field, L.I.) and San Francisco (Crissy Field) began on September 8, 1920, over a route laid out in July and August by Eddie Rickenbacker and Bert Acosta who had helped pilot the first experimental [http://content.cdlib.org/ark:/13030/kt909nd5zq/?layout=metadata&brand=calisphere through flight] carrying about 100 letters which landed at Durant Field located at 82nd Ave and E. 14th St. in East Oakland.
The transcontinental mails were originally flown only during daylight hours while being entrained at night, although on February 22, 1921, a nighttime leg on this route (Omaha to Chicago) was flown for the first time with Jack Knight as the pilot.
The first daily Transcontinental Air Mail service involving both day and night flying over the entire route was opened on July 1, 1924, which reduced the time of the trip from more than 70 hours to a schedule of 34 hours 46 minutes Westbound, and 32 hours 3 minutes Eastbound..
In addition to New York and San Francisco, the route included thirteen intermediate stops where mails were exchanged and aircrew relieved.
This was accomplished at airfields located at Bellefonte (PA), Cleveland (OH), Bryan, (OH), Chicago (IL), Iowa City (IA), Omaha (NE), North Platte (NE), Cheyenne (WY), Rawlins (WY), Rock Springs (WY), Salt Lake City (UT), Elko (NV) and Reno (NV).

In recent years, the Zeppelin company has reentered the airship business.
Their new model, designated the Zeppelin NT, made its maiden flight on 18 September 1997.
As of 2009, there were four NT aircraft flying, a fifth completed in March 2009 and an expanded NT-14 (14,000 cubic meters of helium, capable of carrying 19 passengers) under construction.
One was sold to a Japanese company, and was planned to be flown to Japan in the summer of 2004.
Due to delays getting permission from the Russian government, the company decided to transport the airship to Japan by ship.
One of the four NT craft is in South Africa carrying diamond detection equipment from De Beers, an application at which the very stable low vibration NT platform excels.
The project included design adaptations for high heat operation and desert climate, as well as a separate mooring mast and a very heavy mooring truck.
NT-4 belongs to Airship Ventures of Moffett Field, Mountain View in the San Francisco Bay Area, and provides sight-seeing tours

On November 22, 2009 Al Harris suffered a potentially career-ending injury to the outside of his left knee in a home game against the San Francisco 49ers.
Harris fell to the ground while trailing Niners wide receiver Michael Crabtree; no contact caused the injury, Harris reported his foot simply 'got caught in the ground'.
Harris tore the anterior cruciate ligament, the lateral collateral ligament, the iliotibial band, the fibular collateral ligament, and the lateral hamstring.
His knee was surgically reconstructed eight days later and Harris has been working at rehabilitating his knee since.

In the 1930s Pan American Airways established a seaplane port along the fill that led to the Alameda Mole.
This was the original home base for the famous China Clipper flying boat.
In 1929, the University of California established the San Francisco Airdrome located near the current Webster Street tube as a public airport.
The Bay Airdrome had its gala christening party in 1930.
The airfield was a busy place, as an early home base for Coastal Air Freight, Varney Air Lines, West Coast Air Transport, Western Air Express, the transbay Air Ferries, and Boeing's Pacific Air Transport.
The Airdrome was closed in 1941 when its air traffic interfered with the newly built Naval Air Station Alameda (NAS Alameda).
With the advent of World War II, a vast stretch of the marshy area southwest of the Alameda Mole was filled and the NAS Alameda established.
This major Naval facility included a large airfield, as well as docks for several aircraft carriers.
It closed in 1997.

On April 27, 1964, the massive "Good Friday Earthquake" killed 133 people and destroyed several villages and portions of large coastal communities, mainly by the resultant tsunamis and landslides.
It was the third most powerful earthquake in the recorded history of the world, with a moment magnitude of 9.2.
It was over one thousand times more powerful than the 1989 San Francisco earthquake.
The time of day (5:36 pm), time of year and location of the epicenter were all cited as factors in potentially sparing thousands of lives, particularly in Anchorage.

During this time the flight crew had several discussions with the company dispatcher about whether to divert to Los Angeles, or continue on as planned to San Francisco.
Ultimately the pilots chose to divert.
Later the NTSB found that while "the flight crew's decision to divert the flight to Los Angeles...was prudent and appropriate", nonetheless "Alaska Airlines dispatch personnel appear to have attempted to influence the flight crew to continue to San Francisco...instead of diverting to Los Angeles."
Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) transcripts indicate that the dispatcher was concerned about the effect on the schedule ("flow") should the flight divert.

Fifty people on board were bound for Seattle, 47 passengers and the three flight attendants.
32 passengers aboard the plane had San Francisco as their final destination, three had Eugene, Oregon, as their final destination, and one passenger was headed for Fairbanks, Alaska.
Of the passengers, 1 was Mexican and 1 was British; the rest were US citizens.

"Alaska Airlines Flight 261", a McDonnell Douglas MD-83 aircraft, experienced a fatal accident on January 31, 2000 over the Pacific Ocean about 2.7 miles (4.3 km) north of Anacapa Island, California.
The two pilots, three cabin crewmembers, and 83 passengers on board were killed and the aircraft was destroyed.
Alaska 261 was a scheduled international passenger flight from Lic. Gustavo Díaz Ordaz International Airport in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, to Seattle-Tacoma International Airport in Seattle, Washington,  with an intermediate stop at San Francisco International Airport in San Francisco, California.

Beginning in the late 19th century, Judson Powder Works manufactured dynamite at the northwest foot of the hill.
The company had been forced to move from San Francisco and then nearby Fleming Point in Berkeley because of continuing accidental explosions.
The eucaluptus trees now on the hill were planted by the dynamite manufacturers to catch debris and muffle sound of these explosion.
The stop on the transcontinental railroad tracks just to the west was called Nobel Station, after the inventor of dynamite.

Newly promoted Lt. (j.g.) Harris saw his last action on the afternoon of November 12, 1942, when 21 Japanese twin-engined torpedo planes (Mitsubishi G4M1 "Betties") attacked "San Francisco"s task group near Lunga Point.
While commanding the antiaircraft battery on the aft machine gun platform, he directed the fire of his 20-millimeter guns on an approaching Japanese torpedo plane that had been set ablaze by gunfire from the nearby transport "McCawley" (AP-10).
Maintaining heavy fire until the Betty crashed into them, Harris and three of his gun crews died in the fiery crash.

In 1937, Lockheed formed the Alcor Aircraft Corporation in San Francisco and developed the Alcor C-6-1, an 8-place, low-wing plane that also had excellent single-engine performance.
Unfortunately, the prototyp C-6-1 was lost over San Francisco Bay.
During a 1938 test flight, the Alcor prototype went out of control.
A pilot and a passenger bailed out, "leaving the plane to descend in slow circles until it hit the waters of the Golden Gate and sank, as related in the 1957 Lockheed history, "Of Men and Stars."
The Alcor company folded in 1939.

At an aircraft show in San Francisco, thousands admired the little S-1 aircraft, but not a single person ordered the $2,500 plane.
Only then did Allan Loughead realize that the government's sale of war surplus aircraft for as little as $300 had killed the market for new aircraft.
As a result, Loughead Aircraft closed its doors in 1920 and its assets were liquidated in 1921.

Deposits on that first day totaled $8,780.
Within a year, deposits soared above $700,000 ($13.5 million in 2002 dollars).
The 1906 San Francisco earthquake and fires leveled much of the city.
In the face of widespread devastation, Giannini set up a temporary bank, collecting deposits, making loans, and proclaiming that San Francisco would rise from the ashes.

Through contacts in the Los Angeles aviation community, Fred Noonan was subsequently chosen as a second navigator because there were significant additional factors which had to be dealt with while using celestial navigation for aircraft.
He had vast experience in both marine (he was a licensed ship's captain) and flight navigation.
Noonan had recently left Pan Am, where he established most of the company's China Clipper seaplane routes across the Pacific.
Noonan had also been responsible for training Pan American's navigators for the route between San Francisco and Manila.
The original plans were for Noonan to navigate from Hawaii to Howland Island, a particularly difficult portion of the flight; then Manning would continue with Earhart to Australia and she would proceed on her own for the remainder of the project.

American Airlines Flight 910, a four-engine DC-6 propliner, departed San Francisco for Dallas at 23:05 on June 27, and made three scheduled stops on its way to Dallas-Love Field.
On board was a flight crew of three, Captain G.H. Woolweaver, First Officer James R. Poe, Flight Engineer John Barrett, and a cabin crew of two flight attendants, Arlene Siebert and Anita Schmidt.
55 passengers were on board for the final segment of the flight from El Paso to Dallas.

"American Airlines Flight 910", a four-engine Douglas DC-6 propliner, collided in mid-air with a single engine Temco Swift on final approach to Dallas Love Field on June 28, 1952, over Dallas, Texas.
The DC-6 was carrying 55 passengers and 5 crew members from San Francisco, California.
The DC-6 landed with no injuries to any of its 60 occupants, while both occupants of the two-person Swift died when their aircraft impacted the ground.

ARES has provided essential supplemental emergency communications innumerable times throughout the league's history.
In 1989, hundreds of amateurs responded to the Loma Preita Earthquake in the San Francisco Bay area putting in over 3000 volunteer hours in the first week.
In 2005, ARES, with hundreds of volunteer amateur radio operators, provided key communications assistance to recovery organizations and officials coordinating Hurricane Katrina disaster relief.

On December 8, 1941 rumors of an enemy carrier off the coast led to the closing of schools in Oakland, California,  a blackout enforced by local wardens and radio silence followed that evening.
The reports reaching Washington of an attack on San Francisco were regarded as credible.
The affair was described as a test but Lt. Gen. John L. DeWitt of the Western Defense Command said  “Last night there were planes over this community.
They were enemy planes!
I mean Japanese planes!
And they were tracked out to sea.
You think it was a hoax?
It is damned nonsense for sensible people to assume that the Army and Navy would practice such a hoax on San Francisco.”
Rumors continued on the west coast in the following days.
An alert of a similar nature occurred in the Northeast on December 9.
At noon advices were received that hostile planes were only two hours’ distance away.
Although there was no general hysteria, fighter aircraft from Mitchel Field on Long Island took the air to intercept the "raiders".
Wall Street had its worst sell off since the fall of France, school children in New York City were sent home and several radio stations left the air.
In Boston police shifted heavy stores of guns and ammunition from storage vaults to stations throughout the city, and industrial establishments were advised to prepare for a raid.

In the fall of 1941, the 2nd American Volunteer Group was equipped with 33 Lockheed Hudson (A-28) and 33 Douglas DB-7 (A-20) bombers originally built for Britain but acquired by the U.S. Army as part of the Lend-Lease program passed earlier in the year.
The Central Aircraft Manufacturing Company, fronting for the Chinese and American governments, recruited 82 pilots and 359 ground crewmen from the U.S. Army in the fall of 1941, and an undetermined number, including one pilot, actually sailed for Asia aboard "Noordam" and "Bloemfontein" of the Java-Pacific line.
Other pilots reported to San Francisco, and were scheduled to depart aboard the Lockheed Hudsons on 10 December.
The Douglas DB-7s, meanwhile, were to have gone by freighter to Africa, where they would be assembled and ferried to China.
However, the attack on Pearl Harbor caused the program to be aborted.
The vessels at sea were diverted to Australia, the aircraft were taken back into American service, and most or all of the personnel likewise rejoined the military, either in Australia or in the U.S.

"Andrew Cowper Lawson" (July 25, 1861-June 16, 1952) was a professor of geology  at the University of California, Berkeley.
He was the editor and co-author of the 1908 report on the 1906 San Francisco Earthquake which became known as the "Lawson Report".
He was also the first person to identify and name the San Andreas Fault in 1895, and after the 1906 quake, the first to delineate the entire length of the San Andreas Fault which previously had been noted only in the San Francisco Bay Area.
He also named the Franciscan Complex.

His plans for meeting with Gómez and the Government in Arms never took place.
On December 7, 1896, in the vicinity of Punta Brava, Maceo was advancing into the farm of San Pedro, only accompanied by his personal escort (two or three men), the physician of his Headquarters, the Brigade General José Miró Argenter and a small troop of no more than twenty men.
When they attempted to cut a fence for facilitating the march of horses through those lands, they were detected by a strong Spanish column, which opened an intense fire.
Maceo was hit by two shots, one in the chest and another that broke his jaw and penetrated his skull.
His companions could not carry him because of the intensity of the firefight and Maceo's size.
The only rebel who stayed by him was the Lieutenant Francisco Gómez (known as Panchito), son of Máximo Gómez, who faced the Spanish column for the sole purpose of protecting the body of his general.
After being shot several times, the Spaniards killed Gómez with machete strikes, leaving both bodies abandoned, not knowing the identity of the fallen.

When the egg sac hatches, the general, now entirely engulfed in flames, jumps out of the fire, refusing to let Ross leave the basement alive.
Ross shoots it with his nail gun and the projectile sends the burning spider into the nest's egg sac, effectively destroying the nest with fire and ending the plague.
Delbert is able to reach Ross and get him to safety.
Having enough of the country along with the near-death experience, the Jennings family immediately move back to San Francisco, appreciating city life once more, despite minor tremors disrupting them.

Following his trip, Ardeshir continued experimenting with safes, and the business took off following the San Francisco earthquake, where the subsequent fire caused more damage than the earthquake itself.
Following the publication a subsequent article in "Scientific American" (May 26, 1908) that revealed that most safes were in fact not fireproof, Ardeshir held a public demonstration to prove that the safes would protect the contents in the advent of a fire.
The demonstration was a resounding success, but it would not be until the Calcutta Dharamtalla Street fire of April 1925 when the safes demonstrated their worth in that conflagration.
The supreme test came in 1944, eight years after Ardeshir's death.
The fires that resulted from an ammunition explosion at Bombay's Victoria docks raged for days, and the loss of life and property was enormous, but the contents in many of the Godrej safes survived, including one belonging to a bank.

One F.K.8 was purchased by a pilot named Sydney Stewart in the early 1920s.
He took the aircraft to Buenos Aires and gave flying lessons.
There he met Francisco Cusmanich, a Paraguayan pilot.
Stewart and Cusmanich offered their services to the Paraguayan government during the Revolution of 1922.
The F.K.8 was taken to Paraguay by ship.
It received the name of ""Presidente Ayala"" in honor of the President of Paraguay at that time, Dr. Eusebio Ayala.
Both pilots flew several reconnaissance and light bombing sorties over the rebel positions.
In one of those sorties, the F.K.8 was hit several times with ground fire causing an explosion on board, killing Stewart and Cusmanich instantly.

In 1913 the Colorado Street Bridge was dedicated.
This elegant structure curves across the Arroyo accessing Eagle Rock, Glendale, and the San Fernando Valley.
During the Stock Market Crash of 1929 and the subsequent Great Depression of the 1930s, the bridge was a jumping off point for many committing suicide, whereby it received the ignoble name of "Suicide bridge."
By the 1980s the bridge fell into disrepair as chunks of concrete dropped from its face to the armory parking lot in the Arroyo below.
After the San Francisco – Oakland Bay Bridge failure in the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake, the Colorado Street Bridge was closed as a precautionary measure.
Eventually assistance from the Federal Bridge Repair and Replacement Fund and other local governmental agency discretionary funds provided funding for the complete restoration and seismic retrofit of the bridge.
The total project budget amounted to $24 million, and the Colorado Street Bridge was reopened on Dec. 13, 1993, on time and on budget.

Agnos is best known for his leadership of San Francisco during the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake, and for the city's recovery.
The recovery effort also brought political peril to Agnos when he led the effort to tear down the Embarcadero Freeway rather than rebuild it.
Agnos won a narrow vote at the city's Board of Supervisors on a 6–5 decision for the tear-down, leading the way to the opening of the San Francisco waterfront into what is widely considered one of the best outcomes from the earthquake.
However, the move angered the city's Chinatown merchants and voters, who had been significant supporters of Agnos, and played a significant role in his failure to win re-election.

On October 13, 1944, he was transferred back to Bilibid until December, when he boarded the "hell ship" "Oryoku Maru" as one of 1620 prisoners.
Because the prison ship was unmarked, it was bombed December 15, 1944 at Olongapo in Subic Bay by aircraft from USS "Hornet" who mistook it for a troop transport, killing several hundred POWs.
Wermuth survived the bombing and was transported by boxcar to San Fernando.
160 men were placed in his car and as there was no room to move or sit, were forced to stand for the duration of the 26-hour trip.
According to Wermuth, the man beside him died on his feet and was held in place by the crowd for the rest of the trip since there was no room to remove the corpse.
In January, 1945,  he was transported to Formosa aboard the "Enoura Maru".
Wermuth received his fourth Purple Heart due to the injuries sustained when bombers from the USS "Hornet" attacked "Enoura Maru".
Next he was transported to Japan, then to Pusan, Korea, then to Mukden, where his prison camp was liberated by the Russians in August, 1945.
When he was found, he weighed , having weighed  earlier in the war.
Wermuth returned to the United States on the transport SS "Marine Shark", arriving November 1, 1945 in San Francisco.
On his return, he modestly credited the Filipino scouts for many of his exploits saying, "Ninety percent of the credit for what I did was due to them.
They're the best soldiers in the world.
I just happened to be in the right place at the right time."

A few weeks later, AFA struck five flights simultaneously in the San Francisco area.
Alaska management suspended these flight attendants and threatened to fire any other flight attendant who would participate in CHAOS strikes.
This forced AFA to go to court where the union's attorneys ultimately won a preliminary injunction.
In the injunction ruling the court stated the company could not threaten, discipline or fire flight attendants for engaging in intermittent strikes.
The only permissible action the company could take would be to replace the flight attendants and put them on a recall list.
The suspended strikers were ordered reinstated with full back pay.
AFA also financially supported these strikers during the time of their suspension through the CHAOS strike donations.

