A magnitude 10.5 earthquake destroys most of Los Angeles, California and triggers a massive tsunami which causes massive damage to Waikiki, Hawaii.
It turns out to be only the first of a series of seismic events, including the awakening of extinct volcanoes, sudden instability of aquifers, and awakening of ancient faults.
The Hoover Dam in Boulder City, Nevada and Arizona collapses when Lake Mead starts to heat up and expand beyond the spillway's capacity.
Las Vegas, Nevada is then destroyed when acidic water undermines underground limestone, creating a massive sinkhole.
The worst of the seismic events is a massive fault which has opened up under South Dakota, destroying Mount Rushmore in the process.

Kerry Sieh, an American geologist and seismologist, in a 1978 report published in the "Bulletin of the Seismological Society of America", stated that the firsthand reports were most abundant for the shocks felt at 1, 2, and 4 hours before the main shock which were then labeled the predawn, dawn, and sunrise shocks.
The predawn event shook residents of San Francisco (MM II — III), San Jose (MM IV), and Santa Cruz (MM IV).
The dawn shock was felt in those locales plus Fort Tejon and possibly the Carrizo Plain.
The sunrise shock was felt in San Francisco (MM III), Monterey (MM IV), and Visalia (MM II — III).
Sacramento and Los Angeles did not report any of these events.

Surface faulting may have extended beyond the boundaries of the regularly acknowledged slip length.
Researchers recorded first and second-hand accounts of the ground crack, which was understood to be recent surface faulting and not just the topography of the existing rift.
On the extreme northern end of the rupture zone, the surface cracking extended  north of Cholame into San Benito County.
On the southern end, the population centers were not as close to the fault, and early observers were probably limited to the stretch of the fault between Fort Tejon and Elizabeth Lake, as that was close to the Stockton – Los Angeles Road.
Evidence of uprooted and displaced trees south of Elizabeth Lake indicates surface faulting along a "mole track" that ran directly under three Jeffrey Pines.
Two of the three trees examined were tilted in their lower extremity, while the upper portions remained relatively untilted.
Tree ring dating confirmed that the trees had originated 10 and 25 years before 1857 and also that the rings began to grow twice as thick on the side in the direction of the tilt; this is a frequently noted compensation of tree tilt.
Seismologist Kerry Sieh determined that fault slip and the associated ground disturbance was the source of the mole track and subsequent tree tilt.

Scientists and public service officials have speculated on the threat of another very large earthquake occurring in southern California and what type and scale of damage might result.
The portion of the fault that ruptured in 1857 has settled into a period of dormancy and this has given rise to suggestions that future slip along that zone may be characterized by a very large 1857-type event followed by another period of inactivity.
The cities of Frazier Park, Palmdale, and Wrightwood are all located very close to the San Andreas fault, though much of the Los Angeles area could be affected even at a greater distance from the rupture area if a similar event were to reoccur there.
Swaminathan Krishnan, assistant professor of civil engineering and geophysics at the California Institute of Technology, said that if a similar rupture from Parkfield to Wrightwood were to happen again, it would severely affect the Los Angeles area, with the San Fernando Valley being particularly hard hit.

Bodies of water experienced disturbances, particularly in southern California, where rivers spilled over their banks.
Farther north in Santa Clara County the flow of well water was affected.
Ground cracks from liquefaction of swampy ground were observed in Los Angeles and near Oxnard, and ground fissures were reported near the Los Angeles, Santa Ana, and Santa Clara Rivers.

The mainshock was followed by a series of aftershocks that continued for at least 3.75 years, although the total number of large aftershocks was less than would be expected for an earthquake of this size.
The four largest aftershocks all had magnitudes greater than 6, although there are large uncertainties in both location and magnitude due to the limited number of data points available.
On the night of 9 January there was a large aftershock with an estimated magnitude of about 6.25, with a possible epicenter near the Garlock Fault.
The largest aftershock occurred on the afternoon of 16 January with an estimated magnitude of about 6.7, with a possible offshore location, and high felt intensities in Southern California communities.
Santa Barbara and San Bernardino reported an MM intensity of V and Los Angeles reported V and VI.
Two significant events occurred in the San Bernardino area on 15–16 December 1858, with the latter having an estimated magnitude of about 6.
The last recorded major aftershock occurred on 16 April 1860, with an estimated magnitude of about 6.3, with an epicenter close to the Parkfield section of the San Andreas Fault.

El Monte was buffeted by high winds, damaging corn crops and trees.
Los Angeles and Visalia noted large amounts of rain, as much as , but low winds.

A report from the "Los Angeles Times" the following day stated no damage was found in Los Angeles, but also specified that severe shocks were felt in San Diego.
Masonry walls were cracked in several buildings there, as well as the outlying communities of Otay and Jamul.
At the abandoned Carrizo Creek Stage Station, in what is now Anza-Borrego Desert State Park in eastern San Diego county, poorly built masonry was damaged and all adobe buildings were destroyed.
At Hook Ranch and Laguna Station the shaking was strong enough to throw people off their feet and at Dulzura Canyon and McCain Valley the ground was seen to move in waves.
There were rockfalls at Bratton Valley, Tierra Blanca Canyon, Storm Canyon and Whale Peak and landslides at Dulzura Canyon and Devil's Canyon.

The experiment was considered a failure.
Football legend John H. Outland officiated the game and commented, "It seems to me that the distance required in three downs would almost eliminate touchdowns, except through fakes or flukes."
The Los Angeles Times reported that there was much kicking and that the game was considered much safer than regular play, but that the new rule was not "conducive to the sport."

On December 25 in Wichita, Kansas an experimental game was played between Fairmount College and Washburn University.
The game tested a rule change that required the offense to earn a first down in three plays instead of four.
Football legend John H. Outland officiated the game and commented, "It seems to me that the distance required in three downs would almost eliminate touchdowns, except through fakes or flukes."
The "Los Angeles Times" reported that there was much kicking and that the game was considered much safer than regular play, but that the new rule was not "conducive to the sport."

The 1908 Lawson Report, a study of the 1906 quake led and edited by Professor Andrew Lawson of the University of California, showed that the very same San Andreas Fault which had caused the disaster in San Francisco ran close to Los Angeles as well.
The earthquake was the first natural disaster of its magnitude to be documented by photography and motion picture footage.
Moreover, it occurred at a time when the science of seismology was blossoming.
The overall cost of the damage from the earthquake was estimated at the time to be around US$400 million ($8.2 billion in 2009 dollars).

The most widely accepted estimate for the magnitude of the earthquake is a moment magnitude (Mw) of 7.9; however, other values have been proposed, from 7.7 to as high as 8.25.
The main shock epicenter occurred offshore about  from the city, near Mussel Rock.
It ruptured along the San Andreas Fault both northward and southward for a total of .
Shaking was felt from Oregon to Los Angeles, and inland as far as central Nevada.

Early reporting from the "Los Angeles Times" described the city of Oaxaca as being in ruins.
70 per cent of its buildings were either completely destroyed or badly damaged.
Messages were said to be fragmented coming over damaged communication systems as a result of telegraph lines having been knocked down.
One message that did get through was from General Evaristo Perez, a military commander in the state of Oaxaca, to president Pascual Ortiz Rubio stating at least 25 persons were dead.
Veracruz and Tampico reported light damage and one death was reported in Mexico city.
The town of Miahuatlán de Porfirio Díaz, located between Oaxaca and the coast, was reported to be completely destroyed.

The major damage occurred in the thickly settled district from Long Beach to the industrial section south of Los Angeles, where unfavorable geological conditions (made land, water-soaked alluvium) combined with poor structural work to increase the damage.
At Long Beach, buildings collapsed, water tanks fell through roofs, and houses displaced on foundations.
School buildings were among those structures most generally and severely damaged.

The storm dropped heavy rain on California, with  falling in Los Angeles (5.24 inches in 24 hours) and  recorded at Mount Wilson, both September records.
Over three hours, one thunderstorm dropped nearly  of rain on Indio.
9.65 inches fell on Raywood Flat, and  on Palm Springs.
4.83 inches fell on Pasadena, a September record at the time.
At the Citrus Belt near Anaheim, at least 4.63 inches of rain fell.
The  at Mount Wilson is one of California's highest rainfall amounts from a tropical cyclone, although at least one system has a higher point maximum.
The rains caused a flood 2 to  deep in the Coachella Valley, although some of this may be attributable to a rainstorm dropping  the day before the storm hit.
The Los Angeles River, which was usually low during September, became a raging torrent.

In an interview with the "Los Angeles Times" shortly after the earthquake, Dr. Beno Gutenberg, a geophysicist and professor at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena, prematurely reported that the source of the quake was the San Jacinto fault and compared the earthquake to the 1933 Long Beach earthquake saying "The energy of the Imperial Vally shock was less, and it should have done less damage, than the one of 1933, even had it occurred in an area of greater population."
The Imperial Fault had not been previously identified and had only become differentiated from the other faults in the area by geologists after the earthquake had occurred.

The city of Palm Springs, California was hardest hit, with structural damage ranging from minor to the collapse of a furniture store.
Several other locations in California suffered significant damage.
School buildings were destroyed in Palm Springs and Wildomar, California; significant damage was also reported from Los Angeles, San Diego, Escondido, and Corona.
Several injuries were reported, but no deaths.

The "1952 Kern County earthquake" occurred on July 21, 1952, in Kern County, California, with a magnitude of 7.3 on the moment magnitude scale.
It was the largest earthquake to strike Southern California since the Fort Tejon earthquake of 1857 and the 1872 Lone Pine earthquake, causing immense and widespread damage.
The main shock killed 12 people, injured 18 and caused more than $50 million in property damage.
Damage occurred as far away as Los Angeles, where six people were killed.
It was followed by several aftershocks, at least 20 of which were magnitude 5.0 or greater, including a magnitude 5.8 on August 22 that killed two more people.
The quake occurred on the White Wolf Fault and was the strongest quake in California since the 1906 San Francisco earthquake.

This six story reinforced concrete building in El Centro had been built in 1971 when there were few other tall buildings in the area and was located 29 km northwest of the epicenter.
The decision to equip the building with 9 strong motion sensors in May 1976 was based on its size, structural attributes, and location in a seismically active area.
Unusually detailed structural analysis was possible as a result of the building having been outfitted with the instrumentation.
The initial configuration was tested shortly after its installation when a relatively small (4.9 local magnitude) earthquake occurred 32 kilometers northwest of the building on November 4, 1976.
The accelerations recorded on the equipment during this event proved to be of very low amplitude and, as a result, the instrumentation was upgraded and improved to include a thirteen channel configuration in the building along with a Kinemetrics triaxial (3 channel) accelerograph located 340 feet east of the building at ground level.
The full sixteen channel system was managed by the California Division of Mines and Geology Office of Ground Motion Studies, and provided almost sixty seconds worth of high resolution data during the 1979 event.
In an interview with the "Los Angeles Times" following the earthquake, Fritz Matthiesen, a scientist with the United States Geological Survey, said that the instruments captured "about the third or fourth most significant recording of building damage we've made in 40 years" and that they "have only three other cases in which damage has occurred in an instrumented building".

The remains of this tropical cyclone caused heavy rains in Southern California due to the subtropical jetstream and westerly winds.
The highest amount noted was  at Camp Pendelton with light rain in the San Fernando Valley and in three California counties (Los Angeles, Orange, and San Diego).
In the northern part of that county, some flooding was reported and storms help firefighters blaze a 16,000 acre wildfire.
In Riverside, the system was responsible for heavy rains.
As such, the Spring Creek overflowed its banks.

The city of Whittier suffered extensive damage with nearly $100 million in damage there.
Three buildings collapsed with many more damaged beyond repair.
Some of the heaviest damage to residential areas was concentrated north of the business district.
The city council proclaimed a state of emergency and asked the governor to do the same to help residents and business owners qualify for financial assistance.
Three people died as a direct result, and five other deaths are attributed indirectly to the event.
One death was of a Southern California Edison worker buried by a landslide in the Muir Peak area of the San Gabriel Mountains while working with a crew installing the footings for a high tension power tower north of Pasadena, California.
Lupe Elias-Exposito was killed when a concrete slab fell on her as she, her sister and a friend were exiting a parking structure at California State University, Los Angeles.
The university, just a few miles from the epicenter, also sustained damage that did not result in injury.
An electrical fire and a chemical spill occurred in separate buildings.
Damage at the campus was not confined to the poorly secured concrete panel on the parking structure.
Shear cracks were found both on the interior walls of a concrete reinforced building and the support columns of a walkway near the library.

More than 10,000 homes and businesses were impacted, mainly in Los Angeles and Orange counties, resulting in about $358 million USD in damage.
Modified Mercalli intensity scale values for the greater Los Angeles area were varied with ranges from VI ("Strong") to VII ("Very Strong").
Only Whittier experienced a level of VIII ("Destructive"), the highest experienced during the event, with the historic uptown area suffering the greatest damage.

In December, a two-page letter addressing Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley was sent to the "Los Angeles Times" and "Fresno Bee" ostensibly from an "ecoterrorist organization" calling itself "The Breeders".
The group claimed that it was responsible for the summer release of the medflies as retaliation for the environmental damage caused by the Malathion aerial spraying by the state.
It also threatened to expand its medfly infestation into the San Joaquin Valley.
The letters claimed that officials would have noticed an uptick in medfly numbers around March 1989.
The group promised to make the aerial spraying program politically and financially impossible through the coordinated release of thousands of medflies.
As early as December 1989 the group's claim was taken seriously.
Initially, the letter was dismissed as "some crank trying to get a lot of publicity", but there was evidence the group played a role in the infestation.
Certain characteristics of the 1989 medfly infestation led investigators to the conclusion that someone was responsible for deliberately releasing medflies; The dense medfly population coupled with the low number of medfly larvae found in the infested areas left entomologists baffled as to how the infestation could be completely natural.
The writer of the letter, and any members of the alleged group, were never identified.

Damage to the area directly surrounding the epicenter was severe.
Roads were buckled, buildings and chimneys collapsed.
There were also large surface fissures.
To the west in the Los Angeles Basin damage was much less severe.
The majority of damage in the LA area involved items which had fallen off shelves.
Unlike the 1994 Northridge earthquake a year and seven and a half months later, no freeway bridges collapsed because of the epicenter's remote location.
Electricity was disabled to thousands of residents, but was generally restored within two to three hours.
There was also some damage to homes from water displaced from swimming pools.

The "Northridge earthquake" was an earthquake that occurred on January 17, 1994, at 04:31 Pacific Standard Time in Reseda, a neighborhood in Los Angeles, California, lasting for about 10–20 seconds.
The earthquake had a "strong" moment magnitude of 6.7, but the ground acceleration was one of the highest ever instrumentally recorded in an urban area in North America, measuring 1.7 "g" (16.7 m/s2) with strong ground motion felt as far away as Las Vegas, Nevada, about 220 miles (360 km) from the epicenter.
The peak ground velocity in this earthquake at the Rinaldi Receiving station was 183 cm/s (6.59 km/h or 4.09 mph), the fastest peak ground velocity ever recorded.
The death toll came to a total of 57 people, and there were over 8,700 injured.
In addition, the earthquake caused an estimated $20 billion in damage, making it one of the costliest natural disasters in U.S. history.

Despite moving over warm waters, Elida began to weaken because it began an eyewall replacement cycle.
When the cycle ended, the cyclone was over cooler water and unsteadily weakened.
Elida fell to a tropical storm on July 27, then degenerated into a remnant low and turned to the northeast.
The remnant dissipated over the open ocean about 535 mi (861 km) west of Los Angeles.

The "2003 San Simeon Earthquake" was a magnitude 6.5Mw  earthquake on the Central Coast of California, about  northeast of San Simeon.
It occurred at 11:15 PST (19:15 UTC) on December 22, 2003.
The earthquake probably occurred on the Oceanic fault zone in the Santa Lucia Mountains.
It was caused by reverse faulting and propagated southeast from the hypocenter for 12 miles (19 km).
The most violent ground movement occurred within 50 miles of the epicenter, though the earthquake was felt as far away as Los Angeles.
It was the most destructive earthquake to hit the U.S. since the 1994 Northridge earthquake.

Dallas, Texas; Shreveport, Louisiana; the New England region; and other areas have reported damage such as ruptured water lines and buckled roads.
The heat wave has been blamed for the damage.
Interstate 44 had two traffic lanes temporarily closed in Oklahoma City after they buckled under the heat.
In addition, overworked power transformers have been damaged or rendered useless because of the heat, resulting in blackouts, notably in St. Louis, Missouri; Queens, New York; Los Angeles, California; and the Delaware Valley.
Some wildfires, including forest fires, and greater thunderstorm intensity, have both been blamed on the heat wave.

Temperatures hit 118 °F (48 °C) on July 21 in Phoenix, making it the hottest day since 1995 and one of the 11 hottest since 1895, when temperature records were first kept in the city.
California temperatures began reaching record levels by July 22.
In one section of the City of Los Angeles, Woodland Hills, the temperature reached 119 °F (49 °C) making it the highest recorded temperature in the county and within the city border breaking the old record of 118 in Canoga Park.
The unusual daytime heat resulted in extremely high overnight temperatures.
Needles, California recorded a low temperature for Sunday, July 23 at 5 am., of 100 °F and in the LA basin the same night, Burbank recorded an overnight low of 77 °F (25 °C).

The scare was met with criticism from a number of sources such as "The Boston Globe", "Los Angeles Times", Fox News, and "The Boston Herald".
A group of police found them to be sharing "some characteristics with improvised explosive devices."
These characteristics included an identifiable power source, circuit board with exposed wiring, and electrical tape.
Investigators were trying to determine "if it was a hoax or something else entirely".
City and State officials came to an agreement with Turner Broadcasting to pay for costs incurred during the incident, while several police departments found many of the devices afterwards.

The area was in the midst of an unusual drought; in Los Angeles, California, with only 3.21 in (82 mm) of precipitation in the entire 2006-2007 rain season, it was, at that time, the driest year on record, receiving less rain than Death Valley in a normal year.

An unusually mild winter across many parts of the Southwest and Pacific Northwest paved the way for an extreme blast of Arctic air that dipped extremely far south causing Arctic snow conditions in the Pacific Northwest and unusually frigid temperatures in Southern California and the San Joaquin Valley.
December brought extremely dry conditions for Southern California as well as unusually warm weather, with relatively little cloud cover in the area.
Los Angeles averaged well over 3 degrees above average for the month of December.
In the Pacific Northwest, the area was continually blasted with unusually large rain storms causing flooding in much of Washington and Oregon.
Temperatures began to drop below average in the San Joaquin Valley beginning January 11 and January 12 in Southern California.
The first freeze occurred in the San Joaquin Valley around midnight on January 13.
During this time, the middle of the nation was being affected by a severe ice storm system caused by the tail end of the same arctic air afflicting the west.

Areas that rarely experience snow in Southern California received a rare glimpse of it during this cold spell.
January 17 brought snow to areas of Malibu and West Los Angeles.
The snow level dropped close to sea level during this cold snap, however no precipitation fell during January 14, January 15, or January 16 in the area when temperatures were at their coldest.
Records were set across Southern California for temperatures as well.
January 14, 2007 saw a low of 36°F (2°C) in downtown Los Angeles, a record for the day.
San Diego bottomed out at 36°F and 35°F (2°C) on consecutive mornings.
Lancaster, a city set in the high desert of Los Angeles County, reached just 3°F (-16°C).
Many sections of the Grapevine freeway were closed due to snow, and several accidents occurred as a result of black ice.

A 2008 study by the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) predicts that California will experience a "major earthquake" — one equal to or greater than the 1994 Northridge earthquake that was responsible for collapsing parts of Los Angeles' freeways and causing $25 billion in damage — in the next 30 years.

Southern California is at slightly higher risk than Northern California: The chance that a magnitude-6.7 quake will strike greater Los Angeles is 67 percent.
The probability of the same sized temblor striking the San Francisco area is 63 percent.
Experts say that the fault with the highest probability — 59 percent likelihood — of generating at least one 6.7 or larger quake is the southern portion of the San Andreas Fault, which runs 1,300 kilometers across southern and western California, including beneath the eastern suburbs of Los Angeles.
In Northern California, the Hayward-Rodgers Creek fault zone is the most likely to shake, with a 31 percent chance of generating at least a 6.7 quake.
The Hayward fault zone runs beneath eastern San Francisco and the East Bay suburbs, including Berkeley and Oakland.
The last major earthquake on this fault was in 1868, but activity in October 2007 rattled San Jose and other Bay Area cities.

The Chino Hills earthquake was caused by oblique slip faulting, with components of both thrust and sinistral strike-slip displacement.
Preliminary reports cited the Whittier fault as the active cause, but the quake was later determined to have been generated by the "Yorba Linda trend," as identified by Caltech seismologist Egill Hauksson.
Its epicenter was within  of Chino Hills and its hypocenter was approximately  deep.
Initial estimations of the moderate main shock reported it as magnitude 5.8, but this was later revised to magnitude 5.4 and in later months to a 5.5.
The main shock was reportedly felt as far south as San Diego, and Tijuana, Mexico, and as far east as Las Vegas, Nevada.
It was the strongest earthquake to occur in the greater Los Angeles area since the 1994 Northridge earthquake.

On July 11, a broad area of low pressure developed within a tropical wave several hundred miles south of Acapulco, Mexico.
Shower and thunderstorm activity associated with the system gradually increased over the next several days as it tracked west-northwestward.
By July 15, the low became sufficiently organized and was declared a tropical depression roughly 695 mi (1,120 km) of Manzanillo, Colima.
Turning towards the northwest in response to a ridge over Mexico, the depression intensified into Tropical Storm Dolores later that day.
Despite southwesterly wind shear displacing the center of Dolores from the deepest convection, the system continued to strengthen, attaining peak winds of 60 mph (95 km/h) on July 16.
Shortly thereafter, convection associated with the storm dissipated, possibly due to entrainment of dry air.
Later that day the system degenerated into a remnant low and gradually weakened.
The remnants eventually dissipated on July 19 roughly 995 mi (1,600 km) west-southwest of Los Angeles, California.

On 8 June, the Ministry of Health confirmed three further cases of novel Influenza A(H1N1); bringing the national total to 17.
One of the new cases is the son of a Canterbury man who recently flew into New Zealand on Air NZ flight NZ5.
The other two new cases came from international flights from Los Angeles (NZ5) and Melbourne (NZ124).
These people have been isolated and are being treated with Tamiflu.
Health officials are in the process of contacted those who may have had contact with those confirmed of having Influenza A(H1N1).
The following day, (9 June), the Ministry of Health reported two further cases.
Both of these new cases travelled to New Zealand from Los Angeles on 31 May, and are currently in isolation with their close contacts.
Concern has also be raised after 19 people (16 students, two teachers and one parent) from Gisborne Boys High School returned to New Zealand on 9 June, and five students began experiencing flu-like symptoms.
ItA(H1N1)   It was confirmed on 11 June that swabs taken from the students returned negative for novel Influenza.

On whether braking alone may fail to stop affected vehicles, a driver account in the "Los Angeles Times" claimed that the attempt to stop a 2005 Camry was unsuccessful with both the brake and emergency brake.
However, tests of the Camry by "Car and Driver" in 2009, attempting to use the brakes to stop acceleration of a purposely stuck throttle at 70, 100, and 120 mph, found that the test driver was able to reduce speed to 10 mph in all instances, and in the 70 and 100 mph tests, stop the car completely.
The Camry's braking distances with a purposely stuck accelerator were also shorter than that of the Ford Taurus' regular stopping distance.
"Car and Driver" concluded that, based on their emergency stopping tests, the Camry's brakes could overcome the accelerator in all cases even without a brake override, and that stopping distances with a wide-open throttle were largely indiscernible from regular braking.

On November 25, 2009, ABC News quoted Sean Kane, head of the for-profit firm "Safety Research & Strategies", stating that he had uncovered hundreds of "non-floor mat sudden acceleration cases" which the floor mat recall did not address.
Kane, who works with attorneys suing Toyota, said his firm had discovered over 2,000 Toyota sudden acceleration cases involving 16 deaths and 243 injuries, publishing its most comprehensive report on the issue on Feb 5th, 2010.
Kane alleged that the problem was not with the accelerator pedals, but with the electronic throttle control systems (ETC).
An electronic throttle control system is a drive-by-wire system, in which the accelerator pedal and the engine are indirectly linked electronically, instead of directly linked mechanically.
This means that input from the accelerator pedal is just one input used to decide how wide the throttle is opened.
On Feb 13, 2010, "The Wall Street Journal" reported that Kane's company was "controversial" because its income comes from lawsuits against auto manufacturers, which was not disclosed in media reports; auto journalists noted that the firm had a "vested interest" in blaming manufacturer defects while avoiding operator error.
The "Los Angeles Times" reported that since Toyota and Lexus began installing electronic throttle control systems in 2001, complaints of unintended acceleration with vehicles from both those brands rose sharply.
Electromagnetic interference with the electronic throttle control system is another possible cause of unintended acceleration.
Some speculated that cosmic rays, or radiation from outer space, was a possible source for alleged electronic malfunctions.

The "Wall Street Journal" reported on February 25, 2010 that "safety regulators, human-error experts and auto makers say driver error is the primary cause of sudden acceleration."
Regarding the 2009-10 Toyota recalls, "Ward's Auto" noted that NHTSA investigations over past years have found that the majority of sudden unintended acceleration cases are due to driver error.
In such cases, accidents are the result of drivers mistakenly stepping on the gas pedal instead of the brake.
On November 29, 2009, the "Los Angeles Times" quoted a motor skills consultant stating that the fault in sudden acceleration cases "almost always lies with drivers who step on the wrong pedal."
In February 2010, "Car and Driver" suggested that the alleged accident rate of 1 in 200,000 recalled Toyotas was "highly unlikely" to result from vehicle defects, pointing to an increased danger for drivers who "aren't smart or calm enough to shift to neutral".
The same month, "Forbes" referred to auto industry experts as "skeptical" of defect explanations, suggesting that "driver error and panic account for many reported problems" with recalled Toyotas.
On February 4, Leonard Evans, author of "Traffic Safety", claimed that driver behavior was the main factor in Toyota accidents, and that the consensus of 70 years of scientific research is that driver error is the prominent explanation for automotive fatalities.
In March 2010, "Forbes" Michael Fumento, "The Atlantic"s Megan McArdle and attorney Ted Frank argued that the fact that most of the incidents of sudden acceleration in Toyota occur in elderly drivers strongly suggest that there is not an electronics problem as opposed to one of pedal misapplication.
Fumento's article was titled: "Why Do Toyotas Hate the Elderly?", and McArdle noted that  immigrants were also twice as likely to be involved.
However, lawsuits filed regarding sudden unintended acceleration cases, along with related third-party investigation reports, have typically avoided the driver error explanation.

On March 10, 2010, the "New York Times" ran a piece by Richard Schmidt, PhD, professor emeritus of psychology at University of California Los Angeles and sudden acceleration researcher, suspecting driver error as the primary cause of unexplained Toyota sudden acceleration reports.
Schmidt pointed to several factors that make driver error more likely: elderly driver age, lack of experience with the car, and short stature.
In addition, unexplained sudden acceleration events were most frequently reported as occurring from low speed or fully stopped.
Typically, the driver was intending to press the brake, and did not consciously confuse the pedals; however, because of advanced age and neuromuscular irregularities, short stature and difficulty reaching the pedals, a slight misalignment in seating position, or unfamiliarity with the car model, the driver's foot contacted the accelerator by mistake.
The resulting unexpected sudden acceleration would lead to panic, with the driver thinking that the acceleration system had failed.
The immediate response would be to brake hard, but not knowing that their foot was on the accelerator, pressing down caused greater acceleration.
In such panic situations, the driver would think that the brakes were not responding, and continue pressing on the gas pedal until they crashed.
Switching to neutral or turning off the ignition was typically not contemplated.
Incidents occurred exclusively in automatic transmission-equipped cars  with driver complaints involving rental cars being far more frequent.
All factors point to reduced driver familiarity and sophistication.

On July 7, 2010, a 5.4-magnitude earthquake, triggered by the April 10, 2010 quake, occurred on the San Jacinto Fault, the most seismically active fault in California and one of two that exhibited signs of increased pressure following the Mexico quake.
It was centered 15 miles (20 kilometers) northwest of the town of Borrego Springs.
The quake in April transferred stress to fault zones farther north, triggering the quake.
The quake rattled buildings in downtown Los Angeles, toppled bottles off shelves and briefly halted rides at Disneyland.

The heat wave was absent on the west coast of North America, where an unusually cool summer took place.
However, parts of Montana and parts of California saw slightly above-average temperatures on July 6.
On September 27, Los Angeles broke its all-time record high, recording a temperature of  in downtown Los Angeles, along with San Diego County having a new record high temperature of .
The Southwestern United States had near-high temperatures from September 26 to October 2, and even hotter than that in some regions.

This earthquake released a surface energy (Me) of  joules, dissipated as shaking and tsunamic energy, which is nearly double that of the 9.1-magnitude 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami that killed 230,000 people.
If harnessed, the surface energy from this earthquake would power a city the size of Los Angeles for an entire year.
The total energy released, also known as the seismic moment (M0), was more than 200,000 times the surface energy and was calculated by the USGS at 3.9×1022 joules, slightly less than the 2004 Indian Ocean quake.
This is equivalent to 9,320 gigatons of TNT, or approximately 600 million times the energy of the Little Boy bomb.

Many states have policies in place that limit the use of AMBER alerts on freeway signs.
In Los Angeles, an AMBER alert issued in October 2002 that was displayed on area freeway signs caused significant traffic congestion.
As a result, the California Highway Patrol elected not to display the alerts during rush hour, citing safety concerns.
The state of Wisconsin only displays AMBER alerts on freeway signs if it is deemed appropriate by the transportation department and a public safety agency.
AMBER alerts do not preempt messages related to traffic safety.

The Central Valley experiences hypothetical flooding 300 miles long and 20 or more miles wide.
Serious flooding also occurs in Orange County, Los Angeles County, San Diego, the San Francisco Bay area, and other coastal communities.
Windspeeds in some places reach 125 miles per hour, hurricane-force winds.
Across wider areas of the state, winds reach 60 miles per hour.
Hundreds of landslides damage roads, highways, and homes.
Property damage exceeds $300 billion, most from flooding.
Demand surge (an increase in labor rates and other repair costs after major natural disasters) could increase property losses by 20 percent.
Agricultural losses and other costs to repair lifelines, dewater (drain) flooded islands, and repair damage from landslides, brings the total direct property loss to nearly $400 billion, of which $20 to $30 billion would be recoverable through public and commercial insurance.
Power, water, sewer, and other lifelines experience damage that takes weeks or months to restore.
Flooding evacuation could involve 1.5 million residents in the inland region and delta counties.
Business interruption costs reach $325 billion in addition to the $400 billion property repair costs, meaning that an ARkStorm could cost on the order of $725 billion, which is nearly 3 times the loss deemed to be realistic by the ShakeOut authors for a severe southern California earthquake, an event with roughly the same annual occurrence probability.

In the early 1970s, Colonel Bank began a personal investigation of the lack of security at the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station, which is a few miles south of San Clemente.
Bank determined that the San Onofre plant was protected by one private security guard with a sidearm, as if the only concern was civilian theft.
Bank concluded that a single special forces soldier could overcome this guard, seize the plant and destroy it with a small quantity of explosives.
The consequence could be a Chernobyl-type accident, whereby the damaged plant would spew radioactivity into the atmosphere and contaminate thousands of square miles, including the nearby Los Angeles basin.

In 1965, the Shoreline Preservation Conference demanded that regulators investigate the danger of faults near the proposed site, but was ignored.
In 1972 a Los Angeles reporter discovered a report by Shell Oil Company geologists completed prior construction of Diablo Canyon Power Plant of the existence of the Hosgri Fault 2½ miles offshore from the facility.
As a result of the discovery, regulators forced PG&E to redesign and reinforce the facility.

Despite the EPA’s claims of a “strong partnership with the Navajo Nation,” recent articles have been published that call into question the equitability and efficiency of the EPA’s action on the abandoned uranium mines.
On March 31, 2012, The New York Times published an article entitled “Uranium Mines Dot Navajo Land, Neglected and Still Perilous” by Leslie MacMillan.
The article suggests that politics and money are influencing the prioritization of mine clean-up efforts.
David Shafer, an environmental manager at the United States Department of Energy, has said that questions of whether current uranium problems are due to past mining or to the naturally occurring mineral are delaying the process of cleaning up.
Similar concerns are common in environmental remediation projects for victims of industrial pollution.
While the EPA does prioritize mines that are nearest to people’s homes, MacMillan highlights some remote locations where people do live and yet have been neglected by the EPA.
Cameron, Arizona is one such site which has a population of nearly 1000.
Rancher Larry Gordy stumbled across an abandoned uranium mine on his grazing land for his cattle near Cameron in the summer of 2010.
There are still no warning signs in the town of Cameron to alert people of potential contamination.
On December 30, 2010 Scientific American published an article entitled “Abandoned Uranium Mines: An ‘Overwhelming Problem’ in the Navajo Nation” by Francie Diep.
Diep told Gordy’s story and reported that the EPA assessed his site on November 9, 2010.
Diep suggested that this date was moved up due to publicity of Gordy’s story; originally the EPA had promised to visit within six months of his original discovery of the uranium mine.
Similar allegations of prioritization due to negative publicity for the EPA were made of the Skyline Mine in the Oljato Mesa.
Elsie Begay, a 71-year-old Navajo woman from the Oljato region was the topic of a series of articles in The Los Angeles Times in 2006.
These articles were written by Yellow Dirt: An American Story of a Poisoned Land and a People Betrayed (2010) author Judy Pasternak, whose work on these articles led to her book.
One EPA representative, Jason Musante, stated this publicity “might have bumped the site up the priority list.”
Now over a year after Gordy stumbled across the mine in his cattle’s grazing land, MacMillan reports that the site at Cameron has yet to be given a priority by the EPA.
When EPA officials were asked to accompany a reporter to the Cameron site, the officials declined and instead offered to visit the newly cleaned site in Oljato.
MacMillan spoke with a Navajo hotel manager near the Skyline Mine who expressed hesitation about the EPAs remediation, stating, “That’s what they want you to see: something that’s all nice and cleaned up.”
MacMillan drew attention to the fact that cows are grazing on contaminated land and people are eating these cattle.
Taylor McKinnon, a director at the Center for Biological Diversity, went so far as to say the site was the “worst he had seen in the Southwest.”
Although the locally grown beef is tested, standard tests for meat do not include checking for radioactive substances like uranium.
The EPA has put an emphasis on health effects throughout its five-year plan, so the lack of any sort of attention in this matter has raised eyebrows.
In addition to the questioning of political bias in the prioritization of mining sites, there is criticism of the EPA’s decision to revisit a 1989 permit proposing to mine for uranium near Church Rock.
New Mexico’s KUNM radio station reported on May 9, 2012 that Uranium Resources Incorporated has expressed interest in starting production near Church Rock by the end of 2013.
An online petition has already gained nearly 10,000 signatures against this new mining initiative.

The effect of actinoform clouds on weather systems and climate patterns is still being analyzed.
Meteorology professor Bjorn Stevens of the University of California, Los Angeles theorizes that they, in conjunction with open-cell stratocumulus clouds, are associated with drizzle formation.
Observations from field studies in both the Northeast and Southeast Pacific seem to indicate that when marine stratus and stratocumulus clouds exist alone, in the absence of these open cells, the cloud formations are associated with light, or no, drizzle.
When the open cells are present—and likewise actinoform clouds—there seems to be a corresponding increase in drizzle.
Thus, data from recent field studies suggest that the presence of "pockets of open cells" (POCs) and actinoform clouds is related to the onset of precipitation.
In fact, he discovered that the shape of the cloud field reorganizes itself when the clouds begin to rain.

In the second year of production, the Acura TL was given slightly more features, including a 5-speed automatic transmission with SportShift.
The added gear allowed for slightly better fuel economy and acceleration when compared to the previous 4-speed automatic transmission with SportShift.
With this model, if the driver forgets the 1-2 shift the computer will take over when in sport mode and do the 1-2 up and down shifts, unlike the 4-speed 1999 model.
In many vehicles, the 5-speed automatic transmission failed: as the third clutch pack wore, particles blocked off oil passages and prevented the transmission from shifting or holding gears normally.
The transmission would slip, fail to shift, or suddenly downshift and make the car come to a screeching halt, even at freeway speeds.
This problem was highlighted in the "Los Angeles Times" in September 2002.
"Consumer Reports" took note and gave the TL and CL the black spot, the worst rating for transmission reliability.
In response to the recurring problem, the manufacturer extended the warranty covering the transmission to 7 yrs or  on U.S.A. models.
A class-action lawsuit was settled to extend the transmission warranty for U.S.A. owners or entities to 7.75 years for all models made from 1999 to 2002 and some 2003 models by VIN; however, Canadian owners warranties were not extended.
Transmissions replaced prior to March 2005 usually fail again.
Transmissions replaced from March 2005 and later include a redesigned third gear clutch pack reported to fix the problem.

Following is a list of accidents and incidents experienced by airline.
According to the Aviation Safety Network,  the carrier experienced 12 deadly accidents throughout its history, totalling 335 fatalities.
The deadliest one occurred in 1961, with a death toll of 67.
The last accident involving fatalities the company experienced took place in 1970, whereas in 1992 there was a single casualty on a flight bound from Buenos Aires to Los Angeles, when shrimp contaminated with cholera was distributed among the passengers.
The company ranks among the safest airlines in the world.

A new economic study of the health impacts and associated costs of air pollution in the Los Angeles Basin and San Joaquin Valley of Southern California shows that more than 3800 people die prematurely (approximately 14 years earlier than normal) each year because air pollution levels violate federal standards.
The number of annual premature deaths is considerably higher than the fatalities related to auto collisions in the same area, which average fewer than 2,000 per year.

It is necessary to mention that first two statistics are computed for typical travels for respective forms of transport, so they cannot be used directly to compare risks related to different forms of transport in a particular travel "from A to B".
For example: according to statistics, a typical flight from Los Angeles to New York will carry a larger risk factor than a typical car travel from home to office.
But a car travel from Los Angeles to New York would not be typical.
It would be as large as several dozens of typical car travels, and associated risk will be larger as well.
Because the journey would take a much longer time, the overall risk associated by making this journey by car will be higher than making the same journey by air, even if each individual hour of car travel can be less risky than an hour of flight.
In the same vein, when considering the "deaths per billion passenger journeys" statistic, it is important to consider that airliners, buses and trains will carry far more passengers than a car, or bicycle for example.

A Finnish study concluded, "These data suggest that alcohol consumption is associated with decreased risk of RCC in male smokers.
Because most of the risk reductions were seen at the highest quartile of alcohol intake and alcohol is a risk factor for a number of cancers particularly among smokers, these data should be interpreted with caution."
"Our data suggest an inverse association between alcohol intake and risk of renal cell cancer…" Compared with nondrinkers, men who drank one or more drinks per day had a 31% lower risk of kidney cancer among 161,126 Hawaii-Los Angeles Multiethnic Cohort participants.

According to the "Los Angeles Times", "County health officials acknowledge that the bacterial count at the mouth of the creek—which curls into a warm-water stagnant pond that flushes out onto the beach—is at times alarmingly high, often surpassing the legal limit for California.
As a result, the area where the creek meets the sea, and the creek itself, are considered permanently off limits to swimmers and bear prominent signs that warn of the dangers of trespassing into such toxic waters.
Nevertheless, people do, almost daily.
Officials from the Orange County Environmental Health Department say that skin rashes, infections, "pink eye" and other assorted ailments are not uncommon to those who use Aliso Beach and, unwittingly, come in contact with the creek and its invisible bacteria...".
The problems facing the creeks are blamed almost entirely on urbanization, which has deprived the creeks of needed sediment while increasing pollution.

In 1978, the AVJUHSD challenged the constitutionality of California Proposition 13, which placed a cap on county real estate taxes.
The proposition limited property tax assessments to the 1975 standard, eliminating $7 billion of the $11.4 billion in property tax revenue collected each year.
According to the "Washington Post", the "severe" limitations this imposed on state funding forced local governments and most school districts in California to make "drastic cutbacks".
Furthermore, an article in the "Los Angeles Times" noted that Federal aid money for Californian schools, worth about $98 million each year, may be reduced if state-funded programs are cut.
A recent Congressional report had found that Proposition 13 would not result in any major "local spending" cuts.
In order to receive Federal aid, the state needed to maintain present levels of spending on local programs or secure local matching funds.
However, the enforcement of this spending was "flexible in many programs" and the Federal Impact Aid program for schools was therefore in jeopardy.

Over its lifetime, the AA was weakened by several factors.
One was the tendency of some of its teams to jump to the NL.
The consistently stronger NL was in better position to survive adverse conditions.
Some owners of AA teams also owned a NL team.
The most significant blow to the AA was dealt by the Players' League, a third major league formed in , which siphoned off talent and gate receipts.
In a rare historical oddity, the Brooklyn Bridegrooms (now the Los Angeles Dodgers) won the league's championship and represented the AA in the  World's Series, switched to the NL during the off-season, and then repeated the same feat.

In 1981, Francis becomes aware of a growing number of deaths from unexplained sources among gay men in Los Angeles, New York City and San Francisco, and is prompted to begin an in-depth investigation of the possible causes.
Working with no money, limited space, and outdated equipment, he comes in contact with politicians and numerous members of the medical community, many of whom resent his involvement because of their personal agendas, and gay leaders.
Of the latter, some—such as Bill Kraus—support him, while others express resentment at what they see as unwanted interference in their lifestyles, especially his attempts to close the local bathhouses.
While Francis pursues his theory that AIDS is caused by a sexually transmitted virus on the model of feline leukemia, he finds his efforts are stonewalled by, among others, the CDC, which is loath to prove the disease is transmitted through blood, and competing French and American scientists, particularly Dr. Robert Gallo, who squabble about who should receive credit for discovering the virus.
Meanwhile, the death toll climbs rapidly.

Modern psychologists point out that suppression of anger may have harmful effects.
The suppressed anger may find another outlet, such as a physical symptom, or become more extreme.
John W. Fiero cites Los Angeles riots of 1992 as an example of sudden, explosive release of suppressed anger.
The anger was then displaced as violence against those who had nothing to do with the matter.
Another example of widespread deflection of anger from its actual cause toward scapegoating, Fiero says, was the blaming of Jews for the economic ills of Germany by the Nazis.

The defense encompasses the very difficulties that Jones posits here: sleeping on the streets because alternatives were inadequate and economic forces were primarily to blame for his predicament.
Id. at 390.
Jones argues that he and other homeless people are not willing or able to pursue such a defense because the costs of pleading guilty are so low and the risks and challenges of pleading innocent are substantial.
" &mdash; id. at 568 n.31 (Fortas, J., dissenting); the Eighth Amendment prohibits the City from punishing involuntary sitting, lying, or sleeping on public sidewalks that is an unavoidable consequence of being human and homeless without shelter in the City of Los Angeles."

The circulation around mid-level ridges, and the subsidence at their center, act to steer tropical cyclones around their periphery.
Due to the subsidence within this type of system, a "cap" can be set up which inhibits the development of free convection.
This limits thunderstorm activity near their center, and traps low-level pollutants such as ozone as haze under their base, which is a significant problem in large urban centers during summer months such as Los Angeles, California and Mexico City, Mexico.

In spite of those factors, the Outlaws averaged 21,038 fans (in a 40,000-seat stadium), 14th in the league.
It might have been even higher if not for brutally cold and wet early-season weather and what amounted to season-long lame duck status.
While Tulsa as a USFL host city had a number of legitimate problems, fan turnout was surprisingly respectable, especially compared to the crippling attendance numbers seen by USFL teams in Chicago (7,455), Washington (7,694) and Los Angeles (15,361).
They were also one of eight teams whose average attendance was 45 percent or more of listed capacity.
The Outlaws would draw decent crowds of 25,403, 21,625, 22,017 and 29,324 later in the season.

On 26 February 2008, THEMIS probes were able to determine, for the first time, the triggering event for the onset of magnetospheric substorms.
Two of the five probes, positioned approximately one third the distance to the moon, measured events suggesting a magnetic reconnection event 96 seconds prior to auroral intensification.
Dr. Vassilis Angelopoulos of the University of California, Los Angeles, the principal investigator for the THEMIS mission, claimed, "Our data show clearly and for the first time that magnetic reconnection is the trigger."

The "Baldwin Hills Reservoir" was a water storage basin located on a low hilltop in Baldwin Hills, Los Angeles, California.
It was constructed between 1947 and 1951 by the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power directly on an active fault line which was subsidiary to the well known nearby Newport-Inglewood fault.
The underlying geologic strata were considered unstable for a reservoir, and the design called for a compacted soil lining meant to prevent seepage into the foundation.
The fault lines were considered during planning but were deemed by some, although not all, of the engineers and geologists involved as not significant.

Late 1963, when the failure occurred, was a time of notable public disasters; only a few weeks before the Italian Vajont Dam had failed, drowning 2000 people.
The failure of the Baldwin Hills Reservoir, which was built to assure safe water for the people of Los Angeles in case of catastrophes such as earthquake, fire, and war, was a blow to engineering confidence, and its failure was the subject of many writings and two professional conferences (1972 and 1987, see references) in the twenty five years following the failure.
The failure occurred shortly after the death of the authoritative Harvard engineer Karl Terzaghi whose ideas had long dominated both the engineering science of soil mechanics and earth dam engineering.
Terzaghi had also made significant contributions to understanding subsidence in oilfields.
This left the assessment of the Baldwin Hills failure in the hands of his successors, who took on conflicting roles as experts in various lawsuits.

The urbanization of the watershed, and associated with it the pollution of urban runoff and stormwater, has degraded the water quality in Ballona Creek and its Estuary.
Ballona Creek is listed by the Los Angeles Regional Water Quality Control Board impaired for fecal coliform, heavy metals, and pesticides.
Dry weather urban runoff and storm water, both conveyed by storm drains, are the primary sources of pollutions in the Creek.

Many of the recessions in the United States were caused by banking panics.
The Great Depression contained several banking crises consisting of runs on multiple banks from 1929 to 1933; some of these were specific to regions of the U.S. Banking panics began in October 1930, one year after the stock market crash, triggered by the collapse of correspondent networks; the bank runs became worse after financial conglomerates in New York and Los Angeles failed in prominently-covered scandals.
Much of the Depression's economic damage was caused directly by bank runs, and institutions put into place after the Depression have prevented runs on U.S. commercial banks since the 1930s, even under conditions such as the U.S. savings and loan crisis of the 1980s and 1990s.
The Depression's bank runs left a lasting mark on the American psyche, exhibited in sometimes disturbing images such as the bleak scenes in the movie "It's a Wonderful Life", where the fictional hero George Bailey struggles to keep his Building & Loan open with a crowd of customers demanding their deposits.

To prevent "cheap" home runs, baseball leagues may specify a minimum distance from home plate to the outfield fences.
Generally, the higher the skill level, the deeper the minimum dimensions must be, to prevent an excess of home runs.
In the major leagues, a rule was passed in 1958 that compelled any new fields built after that point to have a minimum distance of  from home plate to the fences in left and right field, and  to center.
(Rule 1.04, Note(a)).
This rule was passed to avoid situations like the Los Angeles Coliseum, which was .
down the left field line.

For   over  30 years, the   fields of  personality and  social  psychology have been   influenced by  the   work  of  Bernard  Weiner.
His attribution theory of  motivation and  emotions  has  contributed greatly to the   educational  psychologist's  understanding  of   how  perceived  causation  influences  motivation,  behavior,  and  emotions.
This  theory  has  been   applied  to  a  wide  range  of  topics and  has been  supported by numerous  empirical studies.c
Today, Dr. Weiner can be reached at the University of California, Los Angeles, Psychology Department, Franz Hall, Los Angeles, California 90024, where he continues his work on the attribution theory and motivation.
Weiner (1972, 1974) also discussed attribution theory, he proposed four general explanations which are attributed to events.
These four explanations fall into categories of either internal or external and stable or unstable.
The internal external category links to Rotter’s (1956) Locus of Control theory which refers to the extent individuals believe they can control evens.
Those with an internal locus of control believe events are a result of their own behaviours and actions whereas those with an external locus of control believe events are due to powerful others, fate or chance.
Weiner (1972) explained internal (the person) or external (the situation) explanatons are the most fundamental distinction among causal explanations.
Inreference to stability, stable is something unchanging and permanent and unstable is something subject to change.
Weiner’s four explanations are defined using these categories, they are: Skill or ability which is internal stable, Effort which is internal unstable, Task difficulty which is external stable and Luck which is external unstable

The field is a faulted anticlinal structure with oil trapped by a combination of structural and stratigraphic mechanisms.
Bounding the field on the south is the Brentwood-Las Cienegas Fault, and the field ends on the west near the Santa Monica Fault Complex.
The minimum depth to the larger deposits of profitably extractable oil varies from about 5600 to about  below ground surface, or 5400 to  below sea level (as the approximate elevation of this portion of the Los Angeles Basin is about 200 feet).

Hinckley, then church president, told the Los Angeles Times "The 1978 declaration speaks for itself ... I don't see anything further that we need to do".
Church leadership did not issue a repudiation.
Church apostle Dallin H. Oaks said: "It's not the pattern of the Lord to give reasons.
We can put reasons to commandments.
When we do we're on our own.
Some people put reasons to [the ban] and they turned out to be spectacularly wrong.
There is a lesson in that....
The lesson I've drawn from that, I decided a long time ago that I had faith in the command and I had no faith in the reasons that had been suggested for it... I'm referring to reasons given by general authorities and reasons elaborated upon [those reasons] by others.
The whole set of reasons seemed to me to be unnecessary risk taking... Let's [not] make the mistake that's been made in the past, here and in other areas, trying to put reasons to revelation.
The reasons turn out to be man-made to a great extent.
The revelations are what we sustain as the will of the Lord and that's where safety lies."

Hinckley, then church president, told the Los Angeles Times "The 1978 declaration speaks for itself ... I don't see anything further that we need to do".
Church leadership did not issue a repudiation.
Church apostle Dallin H. Oaks said: "It's not the pattern of the Lord to give reasons.
We can put reasons to commandments.
When we do we're on our own.
Some people put reasons to [the ban] and they turned out to be spectacularly wrong.
There is a lesson in that....
The lesson I've drawn from that, I decided a long time ago that I had faith in the command and I had no faith in the reasons that had been suggested for it... I'm referring to reasons given by general authorities and reasons elaborated upon [those reasons] by others.
The whole set of reasons seemed to me to be unnecessary risk taking... Let's [not] make the mistake that's been made in the past, here and in other areas, trying to put reasons to revelation.
The reasons turn out to be man-made to a great extent.
The revelations are what we sustain as the will of the Lord and that's where safety lies."

:""The MBL has one of the highest ridership counts for light rail lines in the Country.
This factor is perhaps the most important contributor to the grade crossing accident rate.
The high ridership results in increased pedestrian traffic near stations as compared to other light rail systems.
In addition, although MTA Operations does not allow high passenger loads dictate safe operations, there is pressure to maintain travel times and headway schedule requirements (e.g., passenger trip from Los Angeles to Long Beach in less than one hour).""

Of all of the races presented as possible examples of the Bradley effect theory, perhaps the one most fiercely rebutted by the theory's critics is the 1982 Bradley/Deukmejian contest itself.
People involved with both campaigns, as well as those involved with the inaccurate polls have refuted the significance of the Bradley effect in determining that election's outcome.
Former "Los Angeles Times" reporter Joe Mathews said that he talked to more than a dozen people who played significant roles in either the Bradley or Deukmejian campaign and that only two felt there was a significant race-based component to the polling failures.
Mark DiCamillo, Director of The Field Poll, which was among those that had shown Bradley with a strong lead, has not ruled out the possibility of a Bradley effect as a minor factor, but also said that the organization's own internal examination after that election identified other possible factors that may have contributed to their error, including a shift in voter preference after the final pre-election polls and a high profile ballot initiative in the same election, a Republican absentee ballot program and a low minority turnout, each of which may have caused pre-election polls to inaccurately predict which respondents were likely voters.Russo, Frank D. (2008, January 9).
[http://www.californiaprogressreport.com/2008/01/the_bradley_eff.html
The "Bradley Effect" on Obama-Clinton Polling in New Hampshire May Be Overstated] "While the 1982 California gubernatorial contest is not the only race where the race of the candidate has been thought to be a factor in polling gone awry, there are a number of other reasons why the Field Poll may not have been accurate.
I spoke with Mark DiCamillo, Director of the Field Poll—whose phone has been ringing off the hook about this today.
He told me that there was a memo done by the polling organization shortly after the election to try to understand what had occurred (not available online as it predated the internet) that identified four possible factors: 1.
A late shift in voter preference after the poll, which could have reflected bias.
2. A well organized GOP absentee ballot program (Bradley won the day of election results).
3. The presence of a handgun initiative on the same ballot that brought out a skewed electorate different from the model used to predict likely voters.
4. Lower turnout by minorities because Bradley did not turn out the base of black voters.

The causes of the polling errors are debated, but pollsters generally believe that perceived societal pressures have led some white voters to be less than forthcoming in their poll responses.
These voters supposedly have harbored a concern that declaring their support for a white candidate over a non-white candidate will create a perception that the voter is racially prejudiced.Rowland, Ashley.
(2006, November 12).
"[http://timesfreepress.com/absolutenm/templates/politicalnews.aspx?articleid=7284&zoneid=66
Impact of race on Ford's defeat debated]", "Chattanooga Times Free Press""Many experts predicted Rep. Ford would lose by a wider margin than he did because some of his white supporters would desert him – a pattern first documented in 1982, when former Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley lost the California governor's race by a larger-than-expected margin.
Researchers said white voters felt social pressure to tell pollsters they would vote for Mr. Bradley, who was black, but voted for his white opponent when they cast their ballots.Dr.
Swain said the close margin of victory in the Corker-Ford contest shows whites did vote for Rep. Ford, and the 'Bradley effect' may be lessening."Biegelsen,
Amy.
(2008, January 9).
"[http://www.styleweekly.com/article.asp?idarticle=16054 Obama's Wilder Lesson]", "Style Weekly""In 1989, nobody saw it coming save Paul Goldman, Wilder’s longtime political Svengali, and Wilder – now Richmond’s mayor – himself.
Thanks in part to advice from campaign pollster Michael Donilon, who went on to advise John Kerry’s 2004 bid for the White House, Goldman assumed that anything short of a definitive commitment of support from a white poll respondent couldn’t be trusted and weighted his poll’s statistical model accordingly.
His poll indicated a virtual tossup, putting Wilder’s chances at 50-50.
... 'This was a historic campaign,' Goldman says.
'Everybody was talking about it – race, race, race – so you give whatever answer’s the socially acceptable one.'"
During the 1988 Jackson presidential campaign, Murray Edelman, a veteran election poll analyst for news organizations and a former president of the American Association for Public Opinion Research, found the race of the pollster conducting the interview to be a factor in the discrepancy.
Edelman's research showed white voters to be more likely to indicate support for Jackson when asked by a black interviewer than when asked by a white interviewer.Elder, Janet.
(2007, May 16).
"[http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/16/us/politics/16web-elder.html
Will There Be an 'Obama Effect?']", "The New York Times""In high-profile contests where one of the major party candidates is black, pre-election telephone polls have often been wrong, overstating the strength of the black candidate.
In polling circles this is known as the 'Bradley effect' or the 'Wilder effect' or the 'Dinkins effect.'""During
Jesse Jackson’s bid for the Democratic presidential nomination in 1988, Murray Edelman of CBS News and Rutgers University took a look at the effect the race of the interviewer might have had on the way people answered questions about who they intended to vote for.
'White respondents showed more support for Jackson when talking to black interviewers than the other way around,' said Mr. Edelman.
'The support for Jackson was less when white respondents talked to white interviewers.'""Writing in The Polling Report, Mr. Brodnitz said the race of the interviewer was not a factor in their polling in 2006.
Mr. Brodnitz said that problems in the final pre-election public polls had nothing to do with race, but were caused by methodology.

The 2008 presidential campaign of Barack Obama, a black United States Senator, brought a heightened level of scrutiny to the Bradley effect, as observers searched for signs of the effect in comparing Obama's polling numbers to the actual election results during the Democratic primary elections.Jones, Jackie.
(2008, January 2).
"[http://www.blackamericaweb.com/site.aspx/bawnews/obamaelectability103
Barack Obama, Unelectable ‘Hopemonger?’
Campaign, Polls Proving the Naysayers Wrong]", [http://blackamericaweb.com BlackAmericaWeb.com]"Still,
there are people who believe what Edley called 'the Bradley factor' could stall Obama’s campaign.
When Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley ran for governor in California in 1982, all the polls had him leading handily, 'but when people got behind the curtain, they couldn’t pull the lever' for him, Edley said.
'The question is to what extent does that Bradley effect still an effect 25 years later?'"
After a victorious showing in the Iowa caucuses, where votes were cast publicly, polls predicted that Obama would also capture the New Hampshire Democratic primary election by a large margin over Hillary Clinton, a white senator.
However, Clinton defeated Obama by three points in the New Hampshire race, where ballots were cast secretly, immediately initiating suggestions by some analysts that the Bradley effect may have been at work.Tabin, John.
(2008, January 9).
"[http://www.spectator.org/dsp_article.asp?art_id=12552
It's Crying Time Again]", "The American Spectator""So how did she do it?
How did Hillary Clinton defy Barack Obama's double-digit lead in the New Hampshire polls and pull out a victory yesterday?
Hindsight being 20/20, we can now see that she had a few things going for her.
...The Bradley Effect.
Named for Tom Bradley, the Los Angeles mayor who narrowly lost the 1982 race for California governor despite a lead in the polls, this is the tendency of black candidates to under-perform their poll numbers.
Whether because of closet racism or a more innocent reluctance to appear politically incorrect, a statistically significant number of voters often tell pollsters they'll vote for a black candidate, but turn around and vote for a white opponent in the privacy of the ballot box.
The effect seems to have diminished in recent election cycles, but may have played a role in New Hampshire."
Other analysts cast doubt on this hypothesis, saying that the polls underestimated Clinton rather than overestimated Obama.
Clinton may have also benefited from the primacy effect in the New Hampshire primary as she was listed ahead of Obama on every New Hampshire ballot.

The Joes sabotage the Scanner and as a result, Billy, Destro, Baroness, and Zartan all break free from Cobra Commander's control.
Storm Shadow is not so lucky and Cobra Commander is able to keep him control through repeated sessions in the Scanner.
Strom shadow is able to resist for small periods of time and is able to warn Snake-Eyes when cobra Commander orders an assassination attempt on Hawk.
Storm Shadow finally breaks free long enough to flee to Los Angeles, but despite the efforts of Snake-Eyes, Billy, and Kamakura, Cobra Commander uses a handheld version of the Scanner to rebrainwash Storm Shadow.

The onset of the Great Depression and the Long Beach earthquake of 1933 pushed the Breakers into bankruptcy.
The 1933 earthquake, which resulted in over 100 deaths, caused only minor damage to the Breakers, but the widespread destruction in Long Beach caused major damage to the city’s tourist trade.
The hotel served as the headquarters for the Red Cross relief efforts following the earthquake.
In August 1934, the "Los Angeles Times" reported that the hotel had sustained a significant operating loss in 1933 and was delinquent on its real estate and personal properties taxes for the past three years.

The 40 story building was topped out in early 2009 but construction was suspended or greatly slowed, as the building was still not completed over two years later as of March, 2011.
The building lost an anchor tenant, a law firm that had a 58 million dollar, 10.5 year lease for 15 percent of the building (115,000 sq ft), in early 2009.
With the new name of Brickell World Plaza, the building has a scheduled opening date of August 2011.
The building developers, the Foram Group, have claimed that this slowed construction was strategic for the purpose of detail, and that after completion they will move their corporate offices into the building.
However, the near halt in construction and the loss of a major tenant suggests that the delay was not strategic, but due to the 2008 economic crisis and the falling demand for office space due to the excessive construction in Miami at that time.
Early in 2011, 600 Brickell got a $130 million construction mortgage loan from Los Angeles based Canyon Capital Reality Advisors that will fund the rest of the construction.
This was one of the largest loans issued in the city of Miami since the real estate crisis.

On December 14, 2007, the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (LADWP) announced that it would drain Silver Lake Reservoir and Elysian Reservoir due to bromate contamination.
At the Silver Lake and Elysian reservoirs a combination of bromide from well water, chlorine, and sunlight had formed bromate.
The decontamination took 4 months, discharging over  of contaminated water.

The popularity of forensic crime television shows supposedly gives rise to many misconceptions about the nature of forensic science and investigation procedures among jury members.
The CSI effect is hypothesized to affect verdicts in two main ways: first, that jurors expect more forensic evidence than is available or necessary, resulting in a higher rate of acquittal when such evidence is absent; and second, that jurors have greater confidence in forensic and particularly DNA evidence than is warranted, resulting in a higher rate of conviction when such evidence is present.
While these and other effects may be caused by crime shows, the most commonly reported effect is that jurors are wrongly acquitting defendants despite overwhelming evidence of guilt.
In particular, prosecutors have reported feeling pressured to provide DNA evidence even when eyewitness testimony is available.
In one highly publicized incident, Los Angeles District Attorney Steve Cooley blamed actor Robert Blake's acquittal on murder charges on the CSI effect.
Cooley noted that the not guilty verdict came despite two witness accounts of Blake's guilt, and claimed that the jury members were "incredibly stupid".

All of the cab-forwards were oil-burning locomotives, which meant there was little trouble involved putting the tender at what would normally be the front of the locomotive.
The oil and water tanks were pressurized so that both would flow normally even on uphill grades.
Visibility from the cab was superb, such that one crewman could easily survey both sides of the track.
There were concerns about what would happen to the crew in the event of a collision, and at least one fatal accident occurred on the Modoc Line when a moving locomotive struck a flat car.
Turning the normal locomotive arrangement around also placed the crew well ahead of the exhaust fumes, insulating them from that hazard.
One problematic aspect of the design, however, was the routing of the oil lines; because the firebox was located ahead of the driving wheels (instead of behind them, the usual practice), oil leaks could cause the wheels to slip.
A nuisance under most conditions, it resulted in at least one fatal accident.
This occurred in 1941 when a cab-forward with leaking steam and oil lines entered the tunnel at Santa Susana Pass near Los Angeles.
The tunnel was on a grade, and as the slow-moving train ascended the tunnel, oil on the rails caused the wheels to slip and spin.
The train slipped backwards and a coupler knuckle broke, separating the air line, causing an emergency brake application and stalling the train in a tunnel that was rapidly filling with exhaust fumes and steam.
The oil dripping on the rails and ties then ignited beneath the engine cab, killing the crew.

More people in California live in areas that do not meet federal clean air standards than in any other state.
A report by the American Lung Association states that some areas in California are the most polluted in the United States, with air quality that is likely damaging the health of millions of people.
The report finds that Los Angeles, Bakersfield (CA), and Visalia-Porterville (CA) rank among the five U.S. cities most polluted with particulates and ozone.

Carson experiences a warm-summer  Mediterranean Climate  (Köppen climate classification "Csb"), similar to that of the Los Angeles Basin with noticeably cooler temperatures during the summer due to the close proximity of the Pacific Ocean (~6-8 miles).
Rainfall is very scarce during the summer in Carson but receives just enough rainfall throughout the year to avoid Köppen's BSh (semi-arid climate).
Carson, like much of the Southern California coastal areas, is subject to a late spring/early summer weather phenomenon called "June Gloom."
This involves overcast or foggy skies in the morning which yield to sun by early afternoon.

The cathedral was heavily damaged during the 1994 Northridge earthquake and became the subject of a lengthy legal battle between the archdiocese, which wanted to demolish the building and build a new cathedral on the site, and preservationists, who wanted the building to remain standing due to its historical significance.
In 1996, the parties involved reached a compromise in which the archdiocese would purchase a nearby site on which to build a new cathedral, and in turn would turn over the St. Vibiana site to the City of Los Angeles.
The Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels was dedicated in 2002 as the successor to St. Vibiana's Cathedral.

The Catholic hierarchy has been criticized for not acting more quickly and decisively to remove, defrock and report priests accused of sexual misconduct.
In response to such criticism, contemporary bishops have asserted that the hierarchy was unaware until recent years of the danger in shuffling priests from one parish to another and in concealing the priests' problems from those they served.
For example, Cardinal Roger Mahony of the Archdiocese of Los Angeles, said: "We have said repeatedly that ... our understanding of this problem and the way it's dealt with today evolved, and that in those years ago, decades ago, people didn't realize how serious this was, and so, rather than pulling people out of ministry directly and fully, they were moved."

The Los Angeles area is also subject to the phenomenon typical of a microclimate.
As such, the temperatures can vary as much as 18 °F (10 °C) between inland areas and the coast, with a temperature gradient of over one degree per mile (1.6 km) from the coast inland.
California has also a weather phenomenon called "June Gloom" or "May Gray", which sometimes gives overcast or foggy skies in the morning at the coast, but usually gives sunny skies by noon, during late spring and early summer.

Cerritos also has a unique "semi-marine" climate pattern within Los Angeles County.
The fog that typically covers the beach cities rarely reaches Cerritos, but the breeze that comes along the San Gabriel River from the Pacific Ocean has a significant cooling effect.
As a result, Cerritos is rarely affected by the smog, Santa Ana winds, and smothering heat of the Los Angeles Basin.

The period of April through November is warm to hot and dry with average high temperatures of  and lows of .
Due to the moderating effect of the ocean, temperatures are cooler than in more inland areas of Los Angeles, where temperatures can exceed .

Contemporary Weather Bureau reports stated that the  rain had been a small  part of a storm that was already coming but Hatfield's supporters disregarded this.
He began to receive more job offers.
He promised Los Angeles 18 inches (46 centimetres) of rain, apparently succeeded, and collected a fee of $1000.
For this effort, Hatfield had built his tower on the grounds of the Esperanza Sanitarium in Altadena, near Rubio Canyon.

A news station reported the results of tests on what they called chemtrails.
"It seemed like some mornings it was just criss-crossing the whole sky.
It was just like a giant checkerboard," said Bill Nichols, who reportedly noticed the "unusual clouds" begin as normal contrails from a jet engine, but unlike normal contrails, he claims, do not fade away.
He then noticed "it would drop to the ground in a haze", the material collecting on the ground and in water he had sitting in bowls.
KSLA News 12 sampled the water at a lab and initially reported a high level of barium, 6.8 parts per million, more than three times the toxic level set by the EPA.
After contacting the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality, the news station was told that these levels are very unusual, but proving the source "is a whole 'nother matter".
KSLA discovered during their investigation that barium is a hallmark of other chemtrail testing.
However the KSLA reporter had misread the reading, which was actually 68 parts per "billion", well within expected ranges, and the station retracted the story.
The phenomenon attracted the attention of a Los Angeles network affiliate, which aired a similar investigation called "Toxic Sky?" Following suit, Phoenix News Reporter Pat McReynolds at CBS KPHO interviewed Geoengineering investigators and concluded that chemtrails do not exist.
Experts on atmospheric phenomena deny the existence of chemtrails, asserting that the characteristics attributed to them are simply features of contrails responding differently in diverse conditions in terms of the sunlight, temperature, horizontal and vertical wind shear, and humidity levels present at the aircraft's altitude.
Experts explain that what appears as patterns such as grids formed by contrails result from increased air traffic traveling through the gridlike United States National Airspace System's north-south and east-west oriented flight lanes, and that it is difficult for observers to judge the differences in altitudes between these contrails from the ground.
The jointly published fact sheet produced by NASA, the EPA, the FAA, and NOAA in 2000 in response to alarms over chemtrails details the science of contrail formation, and outlines both the known and potential impacts contrails have on temperature and climate.
The USAF produced a fact sheet as well that described these contrail phenomena as observed and analyzed since at least 1953.
It also rebutted chemtrail theories more directly by identifying the theories as a hoax and denying the existence of chemtrails.

The accident occurred ten hours into the regular service between Taipei and Los Angeles.
The Boeing 747SP-09 was 350 miles (550 km) northwest of San Francisco, cruising at an altitude of .
The flight crew consisted of captain Min-Yuan Ho, first officer Ju Yu Chang, flight engineer Kuo-Win Pei, relief captain Chien-Yuan Liao, and relief flight engineer Shih Lung Suwere.
The sequence began when the No. 4 starboard outermost engine stalled at a low thrust setting and flamed out.
That engine had failed twice during previous flights (both while cruising at FL 410 & 430, respectively).
In each of those cases, the engine was restarted, after descending to a lower altitude.
The maintenance response to the logbook entries that noted the problems included engine inspection, fuel filter drainage and replacement, vane controller inspection and replacement, water drainage from Mach probes, insufficient modules, and other filter replacements.
None of those acts fixed the recurrent stalling and flameout problem of the No. 4 engine.

Only after breaking through the bottom of the clouds at  could the captain orient himself and bring the plane under control, leveling out at .
They had descended  in under two and a half minutes.
The flight crew were under the impression that all four engines had flamed out, but the National Transportation Safety Board believes only engine No. 4 had failed.
After leveling out, it was found that the three remaining engines (1, 2 & 3 as numbered from left to right looking forward from the cockpit) were supplying normal thrust.
A restart attempt brought No. 4 back into use.
They began climbing and reported to air traffic control "condition normal now" and they were continuing on to Los Angeles.
They then noticed that the inboard main landing gear were down and one of the plane's hydraulic systems was empty.
Because they didn't have sufficient fuel to reach Los Angeles with the drag added by the landing gear, they diverted to San Francisco.
Learning there were injured people on board, an emergency was declared and they flew straight in to the airport and landed without further incident.

Formation of the halo requires that the sun be very high in the sky, at an elevation of 58° or greater, and that a cirrus cloud or haze be present and contain plate-shaped ice crystals.
The sun's altitude determines the visibility of the halo; it is impossible to see at locations north of 55°N or south of 55°S (although a lunar circumhorizon arc might be visible at other latitudes).
At other latitudes the phenomenon is visible, for a greater or lesser time, around the summer solstice.
Slots of visibility for different latitudes and locations may be looked up [http://www.atoptics.co.uk/halo/chafreq.htm
here].
For example, in London, England the sun is only high enough for 140 hours between mid-May and late July.
Contrast that with Los Angeles, with the sun higher than 58 degrees for 670 hours between late March and late September.

In similar numbers, a Los Angeles Times review of U.S., British, and Pakistani newspapers and international wire services found that between 1,067 and 1,201 direct civilian deaths were reported by those news organizations during the five months from October 7, 2001 to February 28, 2002.
This review excluded all civilian deaths in Afghanistan that did not get reported by U.S., British, or Pakistani news, excluded 497 deaths that did get reported in U.S., British, and Pakistani news but that were not specifically identified as civilian or military, and excluded 754 civilian deaths that were reported by the Taliban but not independently confirmed.

Proponents for the CSA argue that the Clean Air Act sets unachievable goals, especially for ozone and nitrogen oxide pollution.
Having a clearly defined cap will benefit both industry and the general population because the goals are visible to everyone and industry benefits from cost-certainty.
For example, the claim that simply enforcing the Clean Air Act will result in less pollution than the Clear Skies Act assumes that strict measures will be taken in heavily polluting areas, such as Los Angeles and other municipalities.
Measures such as transportation control were taken in the 1970s but were withdrawn amid widespread public protest.
Proponents of reform argue that a more likely result of following the current Clean Air Act is the continued 'muddling along' approach to environmental legislation, with most important decisions made in courts on a case by case basis after many years of litigation.

"Climate Ground Zero (CGZ)", founded in February 2009, is a non-violent civil disobedience campaign against mountaintop removal mining based in the southern coalfields of West Virginia.
According to their website, Climate Ground Zero believes “that the irrevocable destruction of the mountains of Appalachia and its accompanying toll on the air, water, and lives of Appalachians necessitates continued and direct action".
The organization seeks to end mountaintop removal mining by drawing attention to the issue through protests involving trespass on the property of mining companies.
By locking down to machinery on mine sites, occupying trees in the blast zone, or blockading haul roads to mine sites, protesters associated with Climate Ground Zero directly interfere with mining practices.
Other protests draw attention to the alleged negligence of regulatory agencies such as the West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection (WVDEP) or the federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) by occupying the offices of these governmental organizations.
Climate Ground Zero has been referenced in the "New York Times", "Los Angeles Times", "Washington Post", "Democracy Now", and the "Associated Press".

The question of whether CEQA requires lead agencies to evaluate climate change impacts on projects was recently addressed in "Ballona Wetlands Land Trust (Ballona) v. City of Los Angeles" (December 2011, 201 Cal.App.4th
455).
Ballona alleged that the City failed to address impacts of sea level rise on the proposed project.
The court upheld the City’s EIR, stating that while an EIR must analyze environmental effects that may result from a project, it is not required to examine the effects of the environment on the project.
In its opinion, the Court criticized the CEQA Guidelines that suggest lead agencies should consider the impact of the environment on the project, such as Section 15065(a)(4), which requires lead agencies to make a finding of significance for projects that cause “substantial adverse effects on humans beings, either directly or indirect.”

