0 los+angeles A magnitude 10.5 earthquake destroys most of Los Angeles, California and triggers a massive tsunami which causes massive damage to Waikiki, Hawaii. A magnitude  earthquake destroys most of  ,  and triggers a massive tsunami which causes massive damage to , .
1 los+angeles It turns out to be only the first of a series of seismic events, including the awakening of extinct volcanoes, sudden instability of aquifers, and awakening of ancient faults. It turns out to be only the  of a series of seismic events, including the awakening of extinct volcanoes, sudden instability of aquifers, and awakening of ancient faults.
2 los+angeles The Hoover Dam in Boulder City, Nevada and Arizona collapses when Lake Mead starts to heat up and expand beyond the spillway's capacity. The Hoover Dam in  ,  and  collapses when   starts to heat up and expand beyond the spillway's capacity.
3 los+angeles Las Vegas, Nevada is then destroyed when acidic water undermines underground limestone, creating a massive sinkhole. ,  is then destroyed when acidic water undermines underground limestone, creating a massive sinkhole.
4 los+angeles The worst of the seismic events is a massive fault which has opened up under South Dakota, destroying Mount Rushmore in the process. The worst of the seismic events is a massive fault which has opened up under  , destroying   in the process.
5 los+angeles Kerry Sieh, an American geologist and seismologist, in a 1978 report published in the "Bulletin of the Seismological Society of America", stated that the firsthand reports were most abundant for the shocks felt at 1, 2, and 4 hours before the main shock which were then labeled the predawn, dawn, and sunrise shocks. , an  geologist  seismologist, in a  report published in the "Bulletin  the    ", stated that the firsth reports were most abundant for the shocks felt at , ,    before the main shock which were then labeled the predawn, dawn,  sunrise shocks.
6 los+angeles The predawn event shook residents of San Francisco (MM II — III), San Jose (MM IV), and Santa Cruz (MM IV). The predawn event shook residents of   (MM  — I),   (MM ), and ta  (MM ).
7 los+angeles The dawn shock was felt in those locales plus Fort Tejon and possibly the Carrizo Plain. The dawn shock was felt in those locales plus   and possibly the Carrizo Plain.
8 los+angeles The sunrise shock was felt in San Francisco (MM III), Monterey (MM IV), and Visalia (MM II — III). The sunrise shock was felt in   (MM ),  (MM ), and  (MM  — ).
9 los+angeles Sacramento and Los Angeles did not report any of these events. and   did not report any of these events.
10 los+angeles Surface faulting may have extended beyond the boundaries of the regularly acknowledged slip length. Surface faulting may have extended beyond the boundaries of the regularly acknowledged slip length.
11 los+angeles Researchers recorded first and second-hand accounts of the ground crack, which was understood to be recent surface faulting and not just the topography of the existing rift. Researchers recorded  and second-hand accounts of the ground crack, which was understood to be recent surface faulting and not just the topography of the existing rift.
12 los+angeles On the extreme northern end of the rupture zone, the surface cracking extended  north of Cholame into San Benito County. On the extreme northern end of the rupture zone, the surface cracking extended  north of  into   .
13 los+angeles On the southern end, the population centers were not as close to the fault, and early observers were probably limited to the stretch of the fault between Fort Tejon and Elizabeth Lake, as that was close to the Stockton – Los Angeles Road. On the southern end, the population centers were not as close to the fault, and early observers were probably limited to the stretch of the fault between   and  , as that was close to the  –   .
14 los+angeles Evidence of uprooted and displaced trees south of Elizabeth Lake indicates surface faulting along a "mole track" that ran directly under three Jeffrey Pines. Evidence of uprooted and displaced trees south of   indicates surface faulting along a "mole track" that ran directly under   .
15 los+angeles Two of the three trees examined were tilted in their lower extremity, while the upper portions remained relatively untilted. of the  trees examined were tilted in their lower extremity, while the upper portions remained relatively untilted.
16 los+angeles Tree ring dating confirmed that the trees had originated 10 and 25 years before 1857 and also that the rings began to grow twice as thick on the side in the direction of the tilt; this is a frequently noted compensation of tree tilt. Tree ring dating confirmed that the trees had originated  and     and also that the rings began to grow twice as thick on the side in the direction of the tilt; this is a frequently noted compensation of tree tilt.
17 los+angeles Seismologist Kerry Sieh determined that fault slip and the associated ground disturbance was the source of the mole track and subsequent tree tilt. Seismologist   determined that fault slip and the associated ground disturbance was the source of the mole track and subsequent tree tilt.
18 los+angeles Scientists and public service officials have speculated on the threat of another very large earthquake occurring in southern California and what type and scale of damage might result. Scientists and public service officials have speculated on the threat of another very large earthquake occurring in southern  and what type and scale of damage might result.
19 los+angeles The portion of the fault that ruptured in 1857 has settled into a period of dormancy and this has given rise to suggestions that future slip along that zone may be characterized by a very large 1857-type event followed by another period of inactivity. The portion of the fault that ruptured in  has settled into a period of dormancy and this has given rise to suggestions that  slip along that zone may be characterized by a very large -type event followed by another period of inactivity.
20 los+angeles The cities of Frazier Park, Palmdale, and Wrightwood are all located very close to the San Andreas fault, though much of the Los Angeles area could be affected even at a greater distance from the rupture area if a similar event were to reoccur there. The cities of  , , and  are all located very close to the   fault, though much of the   area could be affected even at a greater distance from the rupture area if a similar event were to reoccur there.
21 los+angeles Swaminathan Krishnan, assistant professor of civil engineering and geophysics at the California Institute of Technology, said that if a similar rupture from Parkfield to Wrightwood were to happen again, it would severely affect the Los Angeles area, with the San Fernando Valley being particularly hard hit. , assistant pressor  civil engineering and geophysics at the    , said that if a similar rupture from  to  were to happen again, it would severely affect the   area, with the    being particularly hard hit.
22 los+angeles Bodies of water experienced disturbances, particularly in southern California, where rivers spilled over their banks. Bodies of water experienced disturbances, particularly in southern , where rivers spilled over their banks.
23 los+angeles Farther north in Santa Clara County the flow of well water was affected. Farther north in    the flow of well water was affected.
24 los+angeles Ground cracks from liquefaction of swampy ground were observed in Los Angeles and near Oxnard, and ground fissures were reported near the Los Angeles, Santa Ana, and Santa Clara Rivers. Ground cracks from liquefaction of swampy ground were observed in   and near , and ground fissures were reported near the  ,  , and   .
25 los+angeles The mainshock was followed by a series of aftershocks that continued for at least 3.75 years, although the total number of large aftershocks was less than would be expected for an earthquake of this size. The mainshock was followed by a series of aftershocks th continued for    , although the total number of large aftershocks was less than would be expected for an earthquake of this size.
26 los+angeles The four largest aftershocks all had magnitudes greater than 6, although there are large uncertainties in both location and magnitude due to the limited number of data points available. The  largest aftershocks all had magnitudes greater than , although there are large uncertainties in both location and magnitude due to the limited number of data points available.
27 los+angeles On the night of 9 January there was a large aftershock with an estimated magnitude of about 6.25, with a possible epicenter near the Garlock Fault. On the night of 9  there was a large aftershock with an estimated magnitude of about , with a possible epicenter near the  .
28 los+angeles The largest aftershock occurred on the afternoon of 16 January with an estimated magnitude of about 6.7, with a possible offshore location, and high felt intensities in Southern California communities. The largest aftershock occurred on the afternoon of 16  with an estimated magnitude of about , with a possible offshore location, and high felt intensities in   communities.
29 los+angeles Santa Barbara and San Bernardino reported an MM intensity of V and Los Angeles reported V and VI. and   reported an MM intensity of V and   reported V and VI.
30 los+angeles Two significant events occurred in the San Bernardino area on 15–16 December 1858, with the latter having an estimated magnitude of about 6. significant events occurred in the   area on –  , with the latter having an estimated magnitude of about .
31 los+angeles The last recorded major aftershock occurred on 16 April 1860, with an estimated magnitude of about 6.3, with an epicenter close to the Parkfield section of the San Andreas Fault. The last recorded major aftershock occurred on   , with an estimated magnitude of about , with an epicenter close to the  section of the   .
32 los+angeles El Monte was buffeted by high winds, damaging corn crops and trees. was buffeted by high winds, damaging corn crops and trees.
33 los+angeles Los Angeles and Visalia noted large amounts of rain, as much as , but low winds. and  noted large amounts of rain, as much as , but low winds.
34 los+angeles A report from the "Los Angeles Times" the following day stated no damage was found in Los Angeles, but also specified that severe shocks were felt in San Diego. A report from  "  Times"    stated no damage was found in  , but also specified that severe shocks were felt in  .
35 los+angeles Masonry walls were cracked in several buildings there, as well as the outlying communities of Otay and Jamul. Masonry walls were cracked in several buildings there, as well as the outlying communities of  and .
36 los+angeles At the abandoned Carrizo Creek Stage Station, in what is now Anza-Borrego Desert State Park in eastern San Diego county, poorly built masonry was damaged and all adobe buildings were destroyed. At the abandoned    , in what is      in eastern   , poorly built masonry was damaged and all adobe buildings were destroyed.
37 los+angeles At Hook Ranch and Laguna Station the shaking was strong enough to throw people off their feet and at Dulzura Canyon and McCain Valley the ground was seen to move in waves. At Hook Ranch and   the shaking was strong enough to throw people off their feet and at   and   the ground was seen to move in waves.
38 los+angeles There were rockfalls at Bratton Valley, Tierra Blanca Canyon, Storm Canyon and Whale Peak and landslides at Dulzura Canyon and Devil's Canyon. There were rockfalls at  ,   , Storm  and Whale Peak and landslides at   and Devil's .
39 los+angeles The experiment was considered a failure. The experiment was considered a failure.
40 los+angeles Football legend John H. Outland officiated the game and commented, "It seems to me that the distance required in three downs would almost eliminate touchdowns, except through fakes or flukes." Football legend    officiated the game and commented, "It seems to me that the distance required in  downs would almost eliminate touchdowns, except through fakes or flukes."
41 los+angeles The Los Angeles Times reported that there was much kicking and that the game was considered much safer than regular play, but that the new rule was not "conducive to the sport." The    reported that there was much kicking and that the game was considered much safer than regular play, but that the new rule was not "conducive to the sport."
42 los+angeles On December 25 in Wichita, Kansas an experimental game was played between Fairmount College and Washburn University. On   in ,  an experimental game was played between   and  .
43 los+angeles The game tested a rule change that required the offense to earn a first down in three plays instead of four. The game tested a rule change that required the offense to earn a  down in  plays instead of .
44 los+angeles Football legend John H. Outland officiated the game and commented, "It seems to me that the distance required in three downs would almost eliminate touchdowns, except through fakes or flukes." Football legend    officiated the game and commented, "It seems to me that the distance required in  downs would almost eliminate touchdowns, except through fakes or flukes."
45 los+angeles The "Los Angeles Times" reported that there was much kicking and that the game was considered much safer than regular play, but that the new rule was not "conducive to the sport." The "Los Angeles Times" reported that there was much kicking and that the game was considered much safer than regular play, but that the new rule was not "conducive to the sport."
46 los+angeles The 1908 Lawson Report, a study of the 1906 quake led and edited by Professor Andrew Lawson of the University of California, showed that the very same San Andreas Fault which had caused the disaster in San Francisco ran close to Los Angeles as well. The   Report, a study  the  quake led and edited by Pressor    the   , showed that the very same  Andreas Fault which had caused the disaster in   ran close to   as well.
47 los+angeles The earthquake was the first natural disaster of its magnitude to be documented by photography and motion picture footage. The earthquake was the  natural disaster of its magnitude to be documented by photography and motion picture footage.
48 los+angeles Moreover, it occurred at a time when the science of seismology was blossoming. Moreover, it occurred at a time when the science of seismology was blossoming.
49 los+angeles The overall cost of the damage from the earthquake was estimated at the time to be around US$400 million ($8.2 billion in 2009 dollars). The overall cost of the damage from the earthquake was estimated at the time to be around US$400 million ($8.2 billion in  dollars).
50 los+angeles The most widely accepted estimate for the magnitude of the earthquake is a moment magnitude (Mw) of 7.9; however, other values have been proposed, from 7.7 to as high as 8.25. The most widely accepted estimate for the magnitude of the earthquake is a moment magnitude (Mw) of ; however, other values have been proposed, from  to as high as .
51 los+angeles The main shock epicenter occurred offshore about  from the city, near Mussel Rock. The main shock epicenter occurred offshore about  from the city, near  .
52 los+angeles It ruptured along the San Andreas Fault both northward and southward for a total of . It ruptured along the    both northward and southward for a total of .
53 los+angeles Shaking was felt from Oregon to Los Angeles, and inland as far as central Nevada. Shaking was felt from  to  , and inland as far as central .
54 los+angeles Early reporting from the "Los Angeles Times" described the city of Oaxaca as being in ruins. Early reporting from the "Los Angeles Times" described the city of  as being in ruins.
55 los+angeles 70 per cent of its buildings were either completely destroyed or badly damaged. per cent of its buildings were either completely destroyed or badly damaged.
56 los+angeles Messages were said to be fragmented coming over damaged communication systems as a result of telegraph lines having been knocked down. Messages were said to be fragmented coming over damaged communication systems as a result of telegraph lines having been knocked down.
57 los+angeles One message that did get through was from General Evaristo Perez, a military commander in the state of Oaxaca, to president Pascual Ortiz Rubio stating at least 25 persons were dead. message that did get through was from General  , a military commander in the state of , to president    stating at least  persons were dead.
58 los+angeles Veracruz and Tampico reported light damage and one death was reported in Mexico city. and  reported light damage and  death was reported in  city.
59 los+angeles The town of Miahuatlán de Porfirio Díaz, located between Oaxaca and the coast, was reported to be completely destroyed. The town of    , located between  and the coast, was reported to be completely stroyed.
60 los+angeles The major damage occurred in the thickly settled district from Long Beach to the industrial section south of Los Angeles, where unfavorable geological conditions (made land, water-soaked alluvium) combined with poor structural work to increase the damage. The major damage occurred in the thickly settled district from   to the industrial section south of  , where unfavorable geological conditions (made land, water-soaked alluvium) combined with poor structural work to increase the damage.
61 los+angeles At Long Beach, buildings collapsed, water tanks fell through roofs, and houses displaced on foundations. At  , buildings collapsed, water tanks fell through roofs, and houses displaced on foundations.
62 los+angeles School buildings were among those structures most generally and severely damaged. School buildings were among those structures most generally and severely damaged.
63 los+angeles The storm dropped heavy rain on California, with  falling in Los Angeles (5.24 inches in 24 hours) and  recorded at Mount Wilson, both September records. The storm dropped heavy rain on , with  falling in   ( inches in  ) and  recorded at  , both  records.
64 los+angeles Over three hours, one thunderstorm dropped nearly  of rain on Indio. Over  ,  thunderstorm dropped nearly  of rain on .
65 los+angeles 9.65 inches fell on Raywood Flat, and  on Palm Springs. inches fell on Raywood Flat, and  on  .
66 los+angeles 4.83 inches fell on Pasadena, a September record at the time. inches fell on , a  record at the time.
67 los+angeles At the Citrus Belt near Anaheim, at least 4.63 inches of rain fell. At the Citrus Belt near , at least  inches of rain fell.
68 los+angeles The  at Mount Wilson is one of California's highest rainfall amounts from a tropical cyclone, although at least one system has a higher point maximum. The  at   is  of 's highest rainfall amounts from a tropical cycl, although at least  system has a higher point maximum.
69 los+angeles The rains caused a flood 2 to  deep in the Coachella Valley, although some of this may be attributable to a rainstorm dropping  the day before the storm hit. The rains caused a flood  to  deep in   , although some of   be attributable to a rainstorm dropping      storm hit.
70 los+angeles The Los Angeles River, which was usually low during September, became a raging torrent. The   , which was usually low during , became a raging torrent.
71 los+angeles In an interview with the "Los Angeles Times" shortly after the earthquake, Dr. Beno Gutenberg, a geophysicist and professor at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena, prematurely reported that the source of the quake was the San Jacinto fault and compared the earthquake to the 1933 Long Beach earthquake saying "The energy of the Imperial Vally shock was less, and it should have done less damage, than the one of 1933, even had it occurred in an area of greater population." In an interview with the "Los Angeles Times" shortly after the earthquake, Dr.  , a geophysicist and pressor at the     in , prematurely reported that the source  the quake was the   fault and compared the earthquake to the    earthquake saying "The energy  the Imperial Vally shock was less, and it should have d less damage, than the   , even had it occurred in an area  greater population."
72 los+angeles The Imperial Fault had not been previously identified and had only become differentiated from the other faults in the area by geologists after the earthquake had occurred. The Imperial Fault had not been  identified and had only become differentiated from the other faults in the area by geologists after the earthquake had occurred.
73 los+angeles The city of Palm Springs, California was hardest hit, with structural damage ranging from minor to the collapse of a furniture store. The city of  ,  was hardest hit, with structural damage ranging from minor to the collapse of a furniture store.
74 los+angeles Several other locations in California suffered significant damage. Several other locations in  suffered significant damage.
75 los+angeles School buildings were destroyed in Palm Springs and Wildomar, California; significant damage was also reported from Los Angeles, San Diego, Escondido, and Corona. School buildings were destroyed in   and , ; significant damage was also reported from  ,  , , and .
76 los+angeles Several injuries were reported, but no deaths. Several injuries were reported, but no deaths.
77 los+angeles The "1952 Kern County earthquake" occurred on July 21, 1952, in Kern County, California, with a magnitude of 7.3 on the moment magnitude scale. The "   earthquake" occurred on    in    with a magnitude of  on the moment magnitude scale.
78 los+angeles It was the largest earthquake to strike Southern California since the Fort Tejon earthquake of 1857 and the 1872 Lone Pine earthquake, causing immense and widespread damage. It was the largest earthquake to strike   since the   earthquake of  and the  Lone Pine earthquake, causing immense and widespread damage.
79 los+angeles The main shock killed 12 people, injured 18 and caused more than $50 million in property damage. The main shock killed  people, injured  and caused more than $50 million in property damage.
80 los+angeles Damage occurred as far away as Los Angeles, where six people were killed. Damage occurred as far away as  , where  people were killed.
81 los+angeles It was followed by several aftershocks, at least 20 of which were magnitude 5.0 or greater, including a magnitude 5.8 on August 22 that killed two more people. It was followed by several aftershocks, at least  of which were magnitude  or greater, including a magnitude  on   that killed  more people.
82 los+angeles The quake occurred on the White Wolf Fault and was the strongest quake in California since the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. The quake occurred on the White Wolf Fault and was the strongest quake in  since the    earthquake.
83 los+angeles This six story reinforced concrete building in El Centro had been built in 1971 when there were few other tall buildings in the area and was located 29 km northwest of the epicenter. This  story reinforced concrete building in   had been built in  when there were few other tall buildings in the area and was located  km northwest of the epicenter.
84 los+angeles The decision to equip the building with 9 strong motion sensors in May 1976 was based on its size, structural attributes, and location in a seismically active area. The decision to equip the building with  strong motion sensors in  176 was based on its size, structural attributes, and location in a seismically active area.
85 los+angeles Unusually detailed structural analysis was possible as a result of the building having been outfitted with the instrumentation. Unusually detailed structural analysis was possible as a result of the building having been outfitted with the instrumentation.
86 los+angeles The initial configuration was tested shortly after its installation when a relatively small (4.9 local magnitude) earthquake occurred 32 kilometers northwest of the building on November 4, 1976. The initial configuration was tested shortly after its installation when a relatively small ( local magnitude) earthquake occurred  kilometers northwest of the building on   .
87 los+angeles The accelerations recorded on the equipment during this event proved to be of very low amplitude and, as a result, the instrumentation was upgraded and improved to include a thirteen channel configuration in the building along with a Kinemetrics triaxial (3 channel) accelerograph located 340 feet east of the building at ground level. The accelerations recorded on the equipment during this event proved to be of very low amplitude and, as a result, the instrumentation was upgraded and improved to include a  channel configuration in the building along with a  triaxial ( channel) accelerograph located 40 feet east of the building at ground level.
88 los+angeles The full sixteen channel system was managed by the California Division of Mines and Geology Office of Ground Motion Studies, and provided almost sixty seconds worth of high resolution data during the 1979 event. The full  channel system was managed by the           ,  provided almost   worth  high resolution data during the  event.
89 los+angeles In an interview with the "Los Angeles Times" following the earthquake, Fritz Matthiesen, a scientist with the United States Geological Survey, said that the instruments captured "about the third or fourth most significant recording of building damage we've made in 40 years" and that they "have only three other cases in which damage has occurred in an instrumented building". In an interview with the "Los Angeles Times" following the earthquake,  , a scientist with the    , said that the instruments captured "about the  or  most significant recording of building damage we've made in  " and that they "have only  other cases in which damage has occurred in an instrumented building".
90 los+angeles The remains of this tropical cyclone caused heavy rains in Southern California due to the subtropical jetstream and westerly winds. The remains of this tropical cyclone caused heavy rains in   due to the subtropical jetstream and westerly winds.
91 los+angeles The highest amount noted was  at Camp Pendelton with light rain in the San Fernando Valley and in three California counties (Los Angeles, Orange, and San Diego). The highest amount noted was  at   with light rain in the    and in   counties ( , , and  ).
92 los+angeles In the northern part of that county, some flooding was reported and storms help firefighters blaze a 16,000 acre wildfire. In the northern part of that county, some flooding was reported and storms help firefighters blaze a  acre wildfire.
93 los+angeles In Riverside, the system was responsible for heavy rains. In Riverside, the system was responsible for heavy rains.
94 los+angeles As such, the Spring Creek overflowed its banks. As such, the  Creek overflowed its banks.
95 los+angeles The city of Whittier suffered extensive damage with nearly $100 million in damage there. The city of  suffered extensive damage with nearly $100 million in damage there.
96 los+angeles Three buildings collapsed with many more damaged beyond repair. buildings collapsed with many more damaged beyond repair.
97 los+angeles Some of the heaviest damage to residential areas was concentrated north of the business district. Some of the heaviest damage to residential areas was concentrated north of the business district.
98 los+angeles The city council proclaimed a state of emergency and asked the governor to do the same to help residents and business owners qualify for financial assistance. The city council proclaimed a state of emergency and asked the governor to do the same to help residents and business owners qualify for financial assistance.
99 los+angeles Three people died as a direct result, and five other deaths are attributed indirectly to the event. people died as a direct result, and  other deaths are attributed indirectly to the event.
100 los+angeles One death was of a Southern California Edison worker buried by a landslide in the Muir Peak area of the San Gabriel Mountains while working with a crew installing the footings for a high tension power tower north of Pasadena, California. death was of a    worker buried by a landslide in the   area of the    while working with a crew installing the footings for a high tension power tower north of , .
101 los+angeles Lupe Elias-Exposito was killed when a concrete slab fell on her as she, her sister and a friend were exiting a parking structure at California State University, Los Angeles. was killed when a concrete slab fell on her as she, her sister and a friend were exiting a parking structure at   ,  .
102 los+angeles The university, just a few miles from the epicenter, also sustained damage that did not result in injury. The university, just a few miles from the epicenter, also sustained damage that did not result in injury.
103 los+angeles An electrical fire and a chemical spill occurred in separate buildings. An electrical fire and a chemical spill occurred in separate buildings.
104 los+angeles Damage at the campus was not confined to the poorly secured concrete panel on the parking structure. Damage at the campus was not confined to the poorly secured concrete panel on the parking structure.
105 los+angeles Shear cracks were found both on the interior walls of a concrete reinforced building and the support columns of a walkway near the library. Shear cracks were found both on the interior walls of a concrete reinforced building and the support columns of a walkway near the library.
106 los+angeles More than 10,000 homes and businesses were impacted, mainly in Los Angeles and Orange counties, resulting in about $358 million USD in damage. More than  homes and businesses were impacted, mainly in   and Orange counties, resulting in about $358 million USD in damage.
107 los+angeles Modified Mercalli intensity scale values for the greater Los Angeles area were varied with ranges from VI ("Strong") to VII ("Very Strong"). Modified Mercalli intensity scale values for the greater   area were varied with ranges from VI ("Strong") to VII ("Very Strong").
108 los+angeles Only Whittier experienced a level of VIII ("Destructive"), the highest experienced during the event, with the historic uptown area suffering the greatest damage. Only  experienced a level of VIII ("Destructive"), the highest experienced during the event, with the historic uptown area suffering the greatest damage.
109 los+angeles In December, a two-page letter addressing Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley was sent to the "Los Angeles Times" and "Fresno Bee" ostensibly from an "ecoterrorist organization" calling itself "The Breeders". In , a two-page letter addressing   Mayor   was sent to the "  Times" and "Fresno Bee" ostensibly from an "ecoterrorist organization" calling itself "The Breeders".
110 los+angeles The group claimed that it was responsible for the summer release of the medflies as retaliation for the environmental damage caused by the Malathion aerial spraying by the state. The group claimed that it was responsible for the  release of the medflies as retaliation for the environmental damage caused by the  aerial spraying by the state.
111 los+angeles It also threatened to expand its medfly infestation into the San Joaquin Valley. It also threatened to expand its medfly infestation into the   .
112 los+angeles The letters claimed that officials would have noticed an uptick in medfly numbers around March 1989. The letters claimed that officials would have noticed an uptick in medfly numbers around  .
113 los+angeles The group promised to make the aerial spraying program politically and financially impossible through the coordinated release of thousands of medflies. The group promised to make the aerial spraying program politically and financially impossible through the coordinated release of thousands of medflies.
114 los+angeles As early as December 1989 the group's claim was taken seriously. As early as   the group's claim was taken seriously.
115 los+angeles Initially, the letter was dismissed as "some crank trying to get a lot of publicity", but there was evidence the group played a role in the infestation. Initially, the letter was dismissed as "some crank trying to get a lot of publicity", but there was evidence the group played a role in the infestation.
116 los+angeles Certain characteristics of the 1989 medfly infestation led investigators to the conclusion that someone was responsible for deliberately releasing medflies; The dense medfly population coupled with the low number of medfly larvae found in the infested areas left entomologists baffled as to how the infestation could be completely natural. Certain characteristics of the  medfly infestation led investigators to the conclusion that someone was responsible for deliberately releasing medflies; The dense medfly population coupled with the low number of medfly larvae found in the infested areas left entomologists baffled as to how the infestation could be completely natural.
117 los+angeles The writer of the letter, and any members of the alleged group, were never identified. The writer of the letter, and any members of the alleged group, were never identified.
118 los+angeles Damage to the area directly surrounding the epicenter was severe. Damage to the area directly surrounding the epicenter was severe.
119 los+angeles Roads were buckled, buildings and chimneys collapsed. Roads were buckled, buildings and chimneys collapsed.
120 los+angeles There were also large surface fissures. There were also large surface fissures.
121 los+angeles To the west in the Los Angeles Basin damage was much less severe. To the west in the    damage was much less severe.
122 los+angeles The majority of damage in the LA area involved items which had fallen off shelves. The majority of damage in the  area involved items which had fallen off shelves.
123 los+angeles Unlike the 1994 Northridge earthquake a year and seven and a half months later, no freeway bridges collapsed because of the epicenter's remote location. Unlike the   erthquke  yer nd  nd  hlf  lter, no freewy bridges collpsed becuse of the epicenter's remote loction.
124 los+angeles Electricity was disabled to thousands of residents, but was generally restored within two to three hours. Electricity was disabled  thousands of residents, but was generally resred within    .
125 los+angeles There was also some damage to homes from water displaced from swimming pools. There was also some damage to homes from water displaced from swimming pools.
126 los+angeles The "Northridge earthquake" was an earthquake that occurred on January 17, 1994, at 04:31 Pacific Standard Time in Reseda, a neighborhood in Los Angeles, California, lasting for about 10–20 seconds. The " earthquake" was an earthquake that occurred on    at 04:31    in  a neighborhood in    lasting for about – .
127 los+angeles The earthquake had a "strong" moment magnitude of 6.7, but the ground acceleration was one of the highest ever instrumentally recorded in an urban area in North America, measuring 1.7 "g" (16.7 m/s2) with strong ground motion felt as far away as Las Vegas, Nevada, about 220 miles (360 km) from the epicenter. The earthquake had a "strong" moment magnitude of , but the ground acceleration was  of the highest ever instrumentally recorded in an urban area in  , measuring  "g" (1 m/s2) with strong ground motion felt as far away as  , , about  miles ( km) from the epicenter.
128 los+angeles The peak ground velocity in this earthquake at the Rinaldi Receiving station was 183 cm/s (6.59 km/h or 4.09 mph), the fastest peak ground velocity ever recorded. The peak ground velocity in this earthquake at the   station was  cm/s ( km/h or  mph), the fastest peak ground velocity ever recorded.
129 los+angeles The death toll came to a total of 57 people, and there were over 8,700 injured. The death toll came to a total of  people, and there were over  injured.
130 los+angeles In addition, the earthquake caused an estimated $20 billion in damage, making it one of the costliest natural disasters in U.S. history. In addition, the earthquake caused an estimated $20 billion in damage, making it  of the costliest natural disasters in  history.
131 los+angeles Despite moving over warm waters, Elida began to weaken because it began an eyewall replacement cycle. Despite moving over warm waters,  began to weaken because it began an eyewall replacement cycle.
132 los+angeles When the cycle ended, the cyclone was over cooler water and unsteadily weakened. When the cycle ended, the cyclone was over cooler water and unsteadily weakened.
133 los+angeles Elida fell to a tropical storm on July 27, then degenerated into a remnant low and turned to the northeast. fell to a tropical storm on  , then degenerated into a remnant low and turned to the northeast.
134 los+angeles The remnant dissipated over the open ocean about 535 mi (861 km) west of Los Angeles. The remnant dissipated over the open ocean about  mi ( km) west of  .
135 los+angeles The "2003 San Simeon Earthquake" was a magnitude 6.5Mw  earthquake on the Central Coast of California, about  northeast of San Simeon. The "   Earthquake" was a magnitude Mw  earthquake on the    , about  northeast   .
136 los+angeles It occurred at 11:15 PST (19:15 UTC) on December 22, 2003. It occurred at 11:15 PST (19:15 UTC) on   .
137 los+angeles The earthquake probably occurred on the Oceanic fault zone in the Santa Lucia Mountains. The earthquake probably occurred on the Oceanic fault zone in the   .
138 los+angeles It was caused by reverse faulting and propagated southeast from the hypocenter for 12 miles (19 km). It was caused by reverse faulting and propagated southeast from the hypocenter for  miles ( km).
139 los+angeles The most violent ground movement occurred within 50 miles of the epicenter, though the earthquake was felt as far away as Los Angeles. The most violent ground movement occurred within  miles of the epicenter, though the earthquake was felt as far away as  .
140 los+angeles It was the most destructive earthquake to hit the U.S. since the 1994 Northridge earthquake. It was the most destructive earthquake to hit the  since the   earthquake.
141 los+angeles Dallas, Texas; Shreveport, Louisiana; the New England region; and other areas have reported damage such as ruptured water lines and buckled roads. , ; , ; the   region; and other areas have reported damage such as ruptured water lines and buckled roads.
142 los+angeles The heat wave has been blamed for the damage. The heat wave has been blamed for the damage.
143 los+angeles Interstate 44 had two traffic lanes temporarily closed in Oklahoma City after they buckled under the heat. Interstate  had  traffic lanes temporarily closed in   after they buckled under the heat.
144 los+angeles In addition, overworked power transformers have been damaged or rendered useless because of the heat, resulting in blackouts, notably in St. Louis, Missouri; Queens, New York; Los Angeles, California; and the Delaware Valley. In addition, overworked power transformers have been damaged or rendered useless because of the heat, resulting in blackouts, notably in  , ; ,  ;  , ; and the  .
145 los+angeles Some wildfires, including forest fires, and greater thunderstorm intensity, have both been blamed on the heat wave. Some wildfires, including forest fires, and greater thunderstorm intensity, have both been blamed on the heat wave.
146 los+angeles Temperatures hit 118 °F (48 °C) on July 21 in Phoenix, making it the hottest day since 1995 and one of the 11 hottest since 1895, when temperature records were first kept in the city. Temperatures hit  F ( C) on   in , making it the hottest    and  of the  hottest  , when temperature records were  kept in the city.
147 los+angeles California temperatures began reaching record levels by July 22. temperatures began reaching record levels by  .
148 los+angeles In one section of the City of Los Angeles, Woodland Hills, the temperature reached 119 °F (49 °C) making it the highest recorded temperature in the county and within the city border breaking the old record of 118 in Canoga Park. In  section of the City of  ,  , the temperature reached  F ( C) making it the highest recorded temperature in the county and within the city border breaking the old record of  in  .
149 los+angeles The unusual daytime heat resulted in extremely high overnight temperatures. The unusual daytime heat resulted in extremely high overnight temperatures.
150 los+angeles Needles, California recorded a low temperature for Sunday, July 23 at 5 am., of 100 °F and in the LA basin the same night, Burbank recorded an overnight low of 77 °F (25 °C). Needles,  recorded a low temperature for ,   at 5 am., of  F and in the LA basin the same night,  recorded an overnight low of  F ( C).
151 los+angeles The scare was met with criticism from a number of sources such as "The Boston Globe", "Los Angeles Times", Fox News, and "The Boston Herald". The scare was met with criticism from a number of sources such as "The  ", "  Times",  , and "The  ".
152 los+angeles A group of police found them to be sharing "some characteristics with improvised explosive devices." A group of police found them to be sharing "some characteristics with improvised explosive devices."
153 los+angeles These characteristics included an identifiable power source, circuit board with exposed wiring, and electrical tape. These characteristics included an identifiable power source, circuit board with exposed wiring, and electrical tape.
154 los+angeles Investigators were trying to determine "if it was a hoax or something else entirely". Investigators were trying to determine "if it was a hoax or something else entirely".
155 los+angeles City and State officials came to an agreement with Turner Broadcasting to pay for costs incurred during the incident, while several police departments found many of the devices afterwards. City and State officials came to an agreement with   to pay for costs incurred during the incident, while several police departments found many of the devices afterwards.
156 los+angeles The area was in the midst of an unusual drought; in Los Angeles, California, with only 3.21 in (82 mm) of precipitation in the entire 2006-2007 rain season, it was, at that time, the driest year on record, receiving less rain than Death Valley in a normal year. The area was in the midst of an unusual drought; in  , , with only  in ( mm) of precipitation in the entire  rain season, it was, at that time, the driest  on record, receiving less rain than   in a normal .
157 los+angeles An unusually mild winter across many parts of the Southwest and Pacific Northwest paved the way for an extreme blast of Arctic air that dipped extremely far south causing Arctic snow conditions in the Pacific Northwest and unusually frigid temperatures in Southern California and the San Joaquin Valley. An unusually mild  across many parts of the  and   paved the way for an extreme blast of  air that dipped extremely far south causing  snow conditions in the   and unusually frigid temperatures in   and the   .
158 los+angeles December brought extremely dry conditions for Southern California as well as unusually warm weather, with relatively little cloud cover in the area. brought extremely dry conditions for   as well as unusually warm weather, with relatively little cloud cover in the area.
159 los+angeles Los Angeles averaged well over 3 degrees above average for the month of December. averaged well over  degrees above average for    .
160 los+angeles In the Pacific Northwest, the area was continually blasted with unusually large rain storms causing flooding in much of Washington and Oregon. In the  , the area was continually blasted with unusually large rain storms causing flooding in much of  and .
161 los+angeles Temperatures began to drop below average in the San Joaquin Valley beginning January 11 and January 12 in Southern California. Temperatures began to drop below average in the       and   in  .
162 los+angeles The first freeze occurred in the San Joaquin Valley around midnight on January 13. The  freeze occurred in the    around midnight on  .
163 los+angeles During this time, the middle of the nation was being affected by a severe ice storm system caused by the tail end of the same arctic air afflicting the west. During this time, the middle of the nation was being affected by a severe ice storm system caused by the tail end of the same arctic air afflicting the west.
164 los+angeles Areas that rarely experience snow in Southern California received a rare glimpse of it during this cold spell. Areas that rarely experience snow in   received a rare glimpse of it during this cold spell.
165 los+angeles January 17 brought snow to areas of Malibu and West Los Angeles. brought snow to areas of  and   .
166 los+angeles The snow level dropped close to sea level during this cold snap, however no precipitation fell during January 14, January 15, or January 16 in the area when temperatures were at their coldest. The snow level dropped close to sea level during this cold snap, however no precipitation fell during  ,  , or   in the area when temperatures were at their coldest.
167 los+angeles Records were set across Southern California for temperatures as well. Records were set across   for temperatures as well.
168 los+angeles January 14, 2007 saw a low of 36°F (2°C) in downtown Los Angeles, a record for the day. saw a low of F (C) in downtown   a record for  .
169 los+angeles San Diego bottomed out at 36°F and 35°F (2°C) on consecutive mornings. bottomed out at F and F (C) on consecutive mornings.
170 los+angeles Lancaster, a city set in the high desert of Los Angeles County, reached just 3°F (-16°C). , a city set in the high desert of   , reached just F (C).
171 los+angeles Many sections of the Grapevine freeway were closed due to snow, and several accidents occurred as a result of black ice. Many sections of the Grapevine freeway were closed due to snow, and several accidents occurred as a result of black ice.
172 los+angeles A 2008 study by the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) predicts that California will experience a "major earthquake" — one equal to or greater than the 1994 Northridge earthquake that was responsible for collapsing parts of Los Angeles' freeways and causing $25 billion in damage — in the next 30 years. A  study by     () predicts that  will experience a "major earthquake" —  equal to or greater than    earthquake that was responsible for collapsing parts of  ' freeways and causing $25 billion in damage — in    .
173 los+angeles Southern California is at slightly higher risk than Northern California: The chance that a magnitude-6.7 quake will strike greater Los Angeles is 67 percent. is at slightly higher risk than  : The chance that a magnitude-6 quake will strike greater   is 67 percent.
174 los+angeles The probability of the same sized temblor striking the San Francisco area is 63 percent. The probability of the same sized temblor striking the   area is 63 percent.
175 los+angeles Experts say that the fault with the highest probability — 59 percent likelihood — of generating at least one 6.7 or larger quake is the southern portion of the San Andreas Fault, which runs 1,300 kilometers across southern and western California, including beneath the eastern suburbs of Los Angeles. Experts say that the fault with the highest probability — 59 percent likelihood — of generating at least   or larger quake is the southern portion of the   , which runs  kilometers across southern and western , including beneath the eastern suburbs of  .
176 los+angeles In Northern California, the Hayward-Rodgers Creek fault zone is the most likely to shake, with a 31 percent chance of generating at least a 6.7 quake. In  , the Hayward-Rodgers Creek fault zone is the most likely to shake, with a 31 percent chance of generating at least a  quake.
177 los+angeles The Hayward fault zone runs beneath eastern San Francisco and the East Bay suburbs, including Berkeley and Oakland. The Hayward fault zone runs beneath eastern   and the   suburbs, including  and .
178 los+angeles The last major earthquake on this fault was in 1868, but activity in October 2007 rattled San Jose and other Bay Area cities. The last major earthquake on this fault was in , but activity in   rattled   and other   cities.
179 los+angeles The Chino Hills earthquake was caused by oblique slip faulting, with components of both thrust and sinistral strike-slip displacement. The Chino Hills earthquake was caused by oblique slip faulting, with components of both thrust and sinistral strike-slip displacement.
180 los+angeles Preliminary reports cited the Whittier fault as the active cause, but the quake was later determined to have been generated by the "Yorba Linda trend," as identified by Caltech seismologist Egill Hauksson. Preliminary reports cited the  fault as the active cause, but the quake was later determined to have been generated by the "Yorba  trend," as identified by  seismologist  .
181 los+angeles Its epicenter was within  of Chino Hills and its hypocenter was approximately  deep. Its epicenter was within  of   and its hypocenter was approximately  deep.
182 los+angeles Initial estimations of the moderate main shock reported it as magnitude 5.8, but this was later revised to magnitude 5.4 and in later months to a 5.5. Initial estimations of the moderate main shock reported it as magnitude , but this was  revised to magnitude  and in   to a .
183 los+angeles The main shock was reportedly felt as far south as San Diego, and Tijuana, Mexico, and as far east as Las Vegas, Nevada. The main shock was reportedly felt as far south as  , and , , and as far east as  , .
184 los+angeles It was the strongest earthquake to occur in the greater Los Angeles area since the 1994 Northridge earthquake. It was the strongest earthquake to occur in the greater   area since the   earthquake.
185 los+angeles On July 11, a broad area of low pressure developed within a tropical wave several hundred miles south of Acapulco, Mexico. On  , a broad area of low pressure developed within a tropical wave several  miles south of , .
186 los+angeles Shower and thunderstorm activity associated with the system gradually increased over the next several days as it tracked west-northwestward. Shower and thunderstorm activity associated with  system gradually increased over     as it tracked west-northwestward.
187 los+angeles By July 15, the low became sufficiently organized and was declared a tropical depression roughly 695 mi (1,120 km) of Manzanillo, Colima. By  , the low became sufficiently organized and was declared a tropical depression roughly  mi ( km) of , .
188 los+angeles Turning towards the northwest in response to a ridge over Mexico, the depression intensified into Tropical Storm Dolores later that day. Turning towards the northwest in response to a ridge over , the depression intensified into Tropical Storm  later that .
189 los+angeles Despite southwesterly wind shear displacing the center of Dolores from the deepest convection, the system continued to strengthen, attaining peak winds of 60 mph (95 km/h) on July 16. Despite southwesterly wind shear displacing the center of  from the deepest convection, the system continued to strengthen, attaining peak winds of  mph ( km/h) on  .
190 los+angeles Shortly thereafter, convection associated with the storm dissipated, possibly due to entrainment of dry air. Shortly thereafter, convection associated with the storm dissipated, possibly due to entrainment of dry air.
191 los+angeles Later that day the system degenerated into a remnant low and gradually weakened. Later that  the system degenerated into a remnant low and gradually weakened.
192 los+angeles The remnants eventually dissipated on July 19 roughly 995 mi (1,600 km) west-southwest of Los Angeles, California. The remnants eventually dissipated on   roughly  mi ( km) west-southwest of  , .
193 los+angeles On 8 June, the Ministry of Health confirmed three further cases of novel Influenza A(H1N1); bringing the national total to 17. On  , the    confirmed  further cases  novel  A(H1N1); bringing the national total to .
194 los+angeles One of the new cases is the son of a Canterbury man who recently flew into New Zealand on Air NZ flight NZ5. of the new cases is the son of a  man who  flew into   on Air NZ flight NZ5.
195 los+angeles The other two new cases came from international flights from Los Angeles (NZ5) and Melbourne (NZ124). The other  new cases came from international flights from   (NZ5) and  (NZ124).
196 los+angeles These people have been isolated and are being treated with Tamiflu. These people have been isolated and are being treated with .
197 los+angeles Health officials are in the process of contacted those who may have had contact with those confirmed of having Influenza A(H1N1). Health officials are in the process of contacted those who may have had contact with those confirmed of having  A(H1N1).
198 los+angeles The following day, (9 June), the Ministry of Health reported two further cases. , ( ), the    reported  further cases.
199 los+angeles Both of these new cases travelled to New Zealand from Los Angeles on 31 May, and are currently in isolation with their close contacts. Both of these new cases travelled to   from   on  , and are  in isolation with their close contacts.
200 los+angeles Concern has also be raised after 19 people (16 students, two teachers and one parent) from Gisborne Boys High School returned to New Zealand on 9 June, and five students began experiencing flu-like symptoms. Concern has also be raised after  people ( students,  teachers and  parent) from     returned to   on  , and  students began experiencing flu-like symptoms.
201 los+angeles ItA(H1N1)   It was confirmed on 11 June that swabs taken from the students returned negative for novel Influenza. ItA(H1N1)   It was confirmed on   that swabs taken from the students returned negative for novel Influenza.
202 los+angeles On whether braking alone may fail to stop affected vehicles, a driver account in the "Los Angeles Times" claimed that the attempt to stop a 2005 Camry was unsuccessful with both the brake and emergency brake. On whether braking alone may fail to stop affected vehicles, a driver account in the "  Times" claimed that the attempt to stop a  Camry was unsuccessful with both the brake and emergency brake.
203 los+angeles However, tests of the Camry by "Car and Driver" in 2009, attempting to use the brakes to stop acceleration of a purposely stuck throttle at 70, 100, and 120 mph, found that the test driver was able to reduce speed to 10 mph in all instances, and in the 70 and 100 mph tests, stop the car completely. However, tests of the Camry by "Car  Driver" in , attempting to use the brakes to stop acceleration of a purposely stuck throttle at , ,   mph, found that the test driver was able to reduce speed to  mph in all instances,  in the    mph tests, stop the car completely.
204 los+angeles The Camry's braking distances with a purposely stuck accelerator were also shorter than that of the Ford Taurus' regular stopping distance. The Camry's braking distances with a purposely stuck accelerator were also shorter than that of the  ' regular stopping distance.
205 los+angeles "Car and Driver" concluded that, based on their emergency stopping tests, the Camry's brakes could overcome the accelerator in all cases even without a brake override, and that stopping distances with a wide-open throttle were largely indiscernible from regular braking. "Car and Driver" concluded that, based on their emergency stopping tests, the Camry's brakes could overcome the accelerator in all cases even without a brake override, and that stopping distances with a wide-open throttle were largely indiscernible from regular braking.
206 los+angeles On November 25, 2009, ABC News quoted Sean Kane, head of the for-profit firm "Safety Research & Strategies", stating that he had uncovered hundreds of "non-floor mat sudden acceleration cases" which the floor mat recall did not address. On    ABC News quoted   head of the for-profit firm "   " stating that he had uncovered hundreds of "non-floor mat sudden acceleration cases" which the floor mat recall did not address.
207 los+angeles Kane, who works with attorneys suing Toyota, said his firm had discovered over 2,000 Toyota sudden acceleration cases involving 16 deaths and 243 injuries, publishing its most comprehensive report on the issue on Feb 5th, 2010. who works with attorneys suing  said his firm had discovered over   sudden acceleration cases involving  deaths and  injuries publishing its most comprehensive report on the issue on   .
208 los+angeles Kane alleged that the problem was not with the accelerator pedals, but with the electronic throttle control systems (ETC). alleged that the problem was not with the accelerator pedals, but with the electronic throttle control systems (ETC).
209 los+angeles An electronic throttle control system is a drive-by-wire system, in which the accelerator pedal and the engine are indirectly linked electronically, instead of directly linked mechanically. An electronic throttle control system is a drive-by-wire system, in which the accelerator pedal and the engine are indirectly linked electronically, instead of directly linked mechanically.
210 los+angeles This means that input from the accelerator pedal is just one input used to decide how wide the throttle is opened. This means that input from the accelerator pedal is just  input used to decide how wide the throttle is opened.
211 los+angeles On Feb 13, 2010, "The Wall Street Journal" reported that Kane's company was "controversial" because its income comes from lawsuits against auto manufacturers, which was not disclosed in media reports; auto journalists noted that the firm had a "vested interest" in blaming manufacturer defects while avoiding operator error. On    "The Wall Street Journal" reported that 's company was "controversial" because its income comes from lawsuits against auto manufacturers which was not disclosed in media reports; auto journalists noted that the firm had a "vested interest" in blaming manufacturer defects while avoiding operator error.
212 los+angeles The "Los Angeles Times" reported that since Toyota and Lexus began installing electronic throttle control systems in 2001, complaints of unintended acceleration with vehicles from both those brands rose sharply. The "Los Angeles Times" reported that since  and Lexus began installing electronic throttle control systems in , complaints of unintended acceleration with vehicles from both those brands rose sharply.
213 los+angeles Electromagnetic interference with the electronic throttle control system is another possible cause of unintended acceleration. Electromagnetic interference with the electronic throttle control system is another possible cause of unintended acceleration.
214 los+angeles Some speculated that cosmic rays, or radiation from outer space, was a possible source for alleged electronic malfunctions. Some speculated that cosmic rays, or radiation from outer space, was a possible source for alleged electronic malfunctions.
215 los+angeles The "Wall Street Journal" reported on February 25, 2010 that "safety regulators, human-error experts and auto makers say driver error is the primary cause of sudden acceleration." The "Wall Street Journal" reported on    that "safety regulators human-error experts and auto makers say driver error is the primary cause of sudden acceleration."
216 los+angeles Regarding the 2009-10 Toyota recalls, "Ward's Auto" noted that NHTSA investigations over past years have found that the majority of sudden unintended acceleration cases are due to driver error. Regarding the   recalls, "'s Auto" noted that  investigations over   have found that the majority of sudden unintended acceleration cases are due to driver error.
217 los+angeles In such cases, accidents are the result of drivers mistakenly stepping on the gas pedal instead of the brake. In such cases, accidents are the result of drivers mistakenly stepping on the gas pedal instead of the brake.
218 los+angeles On November 29, 2009, the "Los Angeles Times" quoted a motor skills consultant stating that the fault in sudden acceleration cases "almost always lies with drivers who step on the wrong pedal." On    the "Los Angeles Times" quoted a motor skills consultant stating that the fault in sudden acceleration cases "almost always lies with drivers who step on the wrong pedal."
219 los+angeles In February 2010, "Car and Driver" suggested that the alleged accident rate of 1 in 200,000 recalled Toyotas was "highly unlikely" to result from vehicle defects, pointing to an increased danger for drivers who "aren't smart or calm enough to shift to neutral". In  , "Car and Driver" suggested that the alleged accident rate of  in  recalled Toyotas was "highly unlikely" to result from vehicle defects, pointing to an increased danger for drivers who "aren't smart or calm enough to shift to neutral".
220 los+angeles The same month, "Forbes" referred to auto industry experts as "skeptical" of defect explanations, suggesting that "driver error and panic account for many reported problems" with recalled Toyotas. , "Forbes" referred to auto industry experts as "skeptical" of defect explanations, suggesting that "driver error and panic account for many reported problems" with recalled Toyotas.
221 los+angeles On February 4, Leonard Evans, author of "Traffic Safety", claimed that driver behavior was the main factor in Toyota accidents, and that the consensus of 70 years of scientific research is that driver error is the prominent explanation for automotive fatalities. On  ,  , author of "Traffic Safety", claimed that driver behavior was the main factor in Toyota accidents, and that the consensus of   of scientific research is that driver error is the prominent explanation for automotive fatalities.
222 los+angeles In March 2010, "Forbes" Michael Fumento, "The Atlantic"s Megan McArdle and attorney Ted Frank argued that the fact that most of the incidents of sudden acceleration in Toyota occur in elderly drivers strongly suggest that there is not an electronics problem as opposed to one of pedal misapplication. In  , "Forbes"  , "The "s   and attorney   argued that the fact that most of the incidents of sudden acceleration in  occur in elderly drivers strongly suggest that there is not an electronics problem as opposed to  of pedal misapplication.
223 los+angeles Fumento's article was titled: "Why Do Toyotas Hate the Elderly?", and McArdle noted that  immigrants were also twice as likely to be involved. 's article was titled: "Why Do Toyotas Hate the Elderly?", and  noted that  immigrants were also twice as likely to be involved.
224 los+angeles However, lawsuits filed regarding sudden unintended acceleration cases, along with related third-party investigation reports, have typically avoided the driver error explanation. However, lawsuits filed regarding sudden unintended acceleration cases, along with related third-party investigation reports, have typically avoided the driver error explanation.
225 los+angeles On March 10, 2010, the "New York Times" ran a piece by Richard Schmidt, PhD, professor emeritus of psychology at University of California Los Angeles and sudden acceleration researcher, suspecting driver error as the primary cause of unexplained Toyota sudden acceleration reports. On   20 the "  " ran a piece by   PhD pressor emeritus  psychology at      and sudden acceleration researcher suspecting driver error as the primary cause  unexplained  sudden acceleration reports.
226 los+angeles Schmidt pointed to several factors that make driver error more likely: elderly driver age, lack of experience with the car, and short stature. pointed to several factors that make driver error more likely: elderly driver age, lack of experience with the car, and short stature.
227 los+angeles In addition, unexplained sudden acceleration events were most frequently reported as occurring from low speed or fully stopped. In addition, unexplained sudden acceleration events were most frequently reported as occurring from low speed or fully stopped.
228 los+angeles Typically, the driver was intending to press the brake, and did not consciously confuse the pedals; however, because of advanced age and neuromuscular irregularities, short stature and difficulty reaching the pedals, a slight misalignment in seating position, or unfamiliarity with the car model, the driver's foot contacted the accelerator by mistake. Typically, the driver was intending to press the brake, and did not consciously confuse the pedals; however, because of advanced age and neuromuscular irregularities, short stature and difficulty reaching the pedals, a slight misalignment in seating position, or unfamiliarity with the car model, the driver's foot contacted the accelerator by mistake.
229 los+angeles The resulting unexpected sudden acceleration would lead to panic, with the driver thinking that the acceleration system had failed. The resulting unexpected sudden acceleration would lead to panic, with the driver thinking that the acceleration system had failed.
230 los+angeles The immediate response would be to brake hard, but not knowing that their foot was on the accelerator, pressing down caused greater acceleration. The immediate response would be to brake hard, but not knowing that their foot was on the accelerator, pressing down caused greater acceleration.
231 los+angeles In such panic situations, the driver would think that the brakes were not responding, and continue pressing on the gas pedal until they crashed. In such panic situations, the driver would think that the brakes were not responding, and continue pressing on the gas pedal until they crashed.
232 los+angeles Switching to neutral or turning off the ignition was typically not contemplated. Switching to neutral or turning off the ignition was typically not contemplated.
233 los+angeles Incidents occurred exclusively in automatic transmission-equipped cars  with driver complaints involving rental cars being far more frequent. Incidents occurred exclusively in automatic transmission-equipped cars  with driver complaints involving rental cars being far more frequent.
234 los+angeles All factors point to reduced driver familiarity and sophistication. All factors point to reduced driver familiarity and sophistication.
235 los+angeles On July 7, 2010, a 5.4-magnitude earthquake, triggered by the April 10, 2010 quake, occurred on the San Jacinto Fault, the most seismically active fault in California and one of two that exhibited signs of increased pressure following the Mexico quake. On    a 5.4-magnitude earthquake triggered by the    quake occurred on the    the most seismically active fault in  and  of  that exhibited signs of increased pressure following the  quake.
236 los+angeles It was centered 15 miles (20 kilometers) northwest of the town of Borrego Springs. It was centered  miles ( kilometers) northwest of the town of  .
237 los+angeles The quake in April transferred stress to fault zones farther north, triggering the quake. The quake in  transferred stress to fault zones farther north, triggering the quake.
238 los+angeles The quake rattled buildings in downtown Los Angeles, toppled bottles off shelves and briefly halted rides at Disneyland. The quake rattled buildings in downtown  , toppled bottles off shelves and briefly halted rides at .
239 los+angeles The heat wave was absent on the west coast of North America, where an unusually cool summer took place. The heat wave was absent on the west coast of  , where an unusually cool  took place.
240 los+angeles However, parts of Montana and parts of California saw slightly above-average temperatures on July 6. However, parts of  and parts of  saw slightly above-average temperatures on  .
241 los+angeles On September 27, Los Angeles broke its all-time record high, recording a temperature of  in downtown Los Angeles, along with San Diego County having a new record high temperature of . On  ,   broke its all-time record high, recording a temperature of  in downtown  , along with    having a new record high temperature of .
242 los+angeles The Southwestern United States had near-high temperatures from September 26 to October 2, and even hotter than that in some regions. The Southwestern   had near-high temperatures from   to  , and even hotter than that in some regions.
243 los+angeles This earthquake released a surface energy (Me) of  joules, dissipated as shaking and tsunamic energy, which is nearly double that of the 9.1-magnitude 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami that killed 230,000 people. This earthquake released a surface energy (Me) of  joules, dissipated as shaking and tsunamic energy, which is nearly double that of the 9.1-magnitude    earthquake and tsunami that killed  people.
244 los+angeles If harnessed, the surface energy from this earthquake would power a city the size of Los Angeles for an entire year. If harnessed, the surface energy from this earthquake would power a city the size of   for an entire .
245 los+angeles The total energy released, also known as the seismic moment (M0), was more than 200,000 times the surface energy and was calculated by the USGS at 3.9×1022 joules, slightly less than the 2004 Indian Ocean quake. The total energy released, also known as the seismic moment (M0), was more than  times the surface energy and was calculated by the  at  joules, slightly less than the  Indian Ocean quake.
246 los+angeles This is equivalent to 9,320 gigatons of TNT, or approximately 600 million times the energy of the Little Boy bomb. This is equivalent to  gigatons of , or approximately   times the energy of the   bomb.
247 los+angeles Many states have policies in place that limit the use of AMBER alerts on freeway signs. Many states have policies in place that limit the use of AMBER alerts on freeway signs.
248 los+angeles In Los Angeles, an AMBER alert issued in October 2002 that was displayed on area freeway signs caused significant traffic congestion. In  , an AMBER alert issued in   that was displayed on area freeway signs caused significant traffic congestion.
249 los+angeles As a result, the California Highway Patrol elected not to display the alerts during rush hour, citing safety concerns. As a result, the  Highway Patrol elected not to display the alerts during rush , citing safety concerns.
250 los+angeles The state of Wisconsin only displays AMBER alerts on freeway signs if it is deemed appropriate by the transportation department and a public safety agency. The state of  only displays AMBER alerts on freeway signs if it is deemed appropriate by the   and a public safety agency.
251 los+angeles AMBER alerts do not preempt messages related to traffic safety. AMBER alerts do not preempt messages related to traffic safety.
252 los+angeles The Central Valley experiences hypothetical flooding 300 miles long and 20 or more miles wide. The Central Valley experiences hypothetical flooding  miles long and  or more miles wide.
253 los+angeles Serious flooding also occurs in Orange County, Los Angeles County, San Diego, the San Francisco Bay area, and other coastal communities. Serious flooding also occurs in  ,   ,  , the    area, and other coastal communities.
254 los+angeles Windspeeds in some places reach 125 miles per hour, hurricane-force winds. Windspeeds in some places reach  miles per , hurricane-force winds.
255 los+angeles Across wider areas of the state, winds reach 60 miles per hour. Across wider areas of the state, winds reach  miles per .
256 los+angeles Hundreds of landslides damage roads, highways, and homes. Hundreds of landslides damage roads, highways, and homes.
257 los+angeles Property damage exceeds $300 billion, most from flooding. Property damage exceeds $300 billion, most from flooding.
258 los+angeles Demand surge (an increase in labor rates and other repair costs after major natural disasters) could increase property losses by 20 percent. Demand surge (an increase in labor rates and other repair costs after major natural disasters) could increase property losses by 20 percent.
259 los+angeles Agricultural losses and other costs to repair lifelines, dewater (drain) flooded islands, and repair damage from landslides, brings the total direct property loss to nearly $400 billion, of which $20 to $30 billion would be recoverable through public and commercial insurance. Agricultural losses and other costs to repair lifelines, dewater (drain) flooded islands, and repair damage from landslides, brings the total direct property loss to nearly $400 billion, of which $20 to $30 billion would be recoverable through public and commercial insurance.
260 los+angeles Power, water, sewer, and other lifelines experience damage that takes weeks or months to restore. Power, water, sewer, and other lifelines experience damage that takes  or  to restore.
261 los+angeles Flooding evacuation could involve 1.5 million residents in the inland region and delta counties. Flooding evacuation could involve   residents in the inland region and delta counties.
262 los+angeles Business interruption costs reach $325 billion in addition to the $400 billion property repair costs, meaning that an ARkStorm could cost on the order of $725 billion, which is nearly 3 times the loss deemed to be realistic by the ShakeOut authors for a severe southern California earthquake, an event with roughly the same annual occurrence probability. Business interruption costs reach $25 billion in addition to the $400 billion property repair costs, meaning that an ARkStorm could cost on the order of $725 billion, which is nearly  times the loss deemed to be realistic by the ShakeOut authors for a severe southern  earthquake, an event with roughly the same annual occurrence probability.
263 los+angeles In the early 1970s, Colonel Bank began a personal investigation of the lack of security at the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station, which is a few miles south of San Clemente. In   ,   began a personal investigation of  lack of security at    Nuclear Generating Station, which is a few miles south of  .
264 los+angeles Bank determined that the San Onofre plant was protected by one private security guard with a sidearm, as if the only concern was civilian theft. Bank determined that the   plant was protected by  private security guard with a sidearm, as if the only concern was civilian theft.
265 los+angeles Bank concluded that a single special forces soldier could overcome this guard, seize the plant and destroy it with a small quantity of explosives. Bank concluded that a single special forces soldier could overcome this guard, seize the plant and destroy it with a small quantity of explosives.
266 los+angeles The consequence could be a Chernobyl-type accident, whereby the damaged plant would spew radioactivity into the atmosphere and contaminate thousands of square miles, including the nearby Los Angeles basin. The consequence could be a  accident, whereby the damaged plant would spew radioactivity into the atmosphere and contaminate thousands of square miles, including the nearby   basin.
267 los+angeles In 1965, the Shoreline Preservation Conference demanded that regulators investigate the danger of faults near the proposed site, but was ignored. In , the    demanded that regulators investigate the danger of faults near the proposed site, but was ignored.
268 los+angeles In 1972 a Los Angeles reporter discovered a report by Shell Oil Company geologists completed prior construction of Diablo Canyon Power Plant of the existence of the Hosgri Fault 2½ miles offshore from the facility. In  a   reporter discovered a report by    geologists completed prior construction of Diablo Canyon Power Plant of the existence of the Hosgri Fault ½ miles offshore from the facility.
269 los+angeles As a result of the discovery, regulators forced PG&E to redesign and reinforce the facility. As a result of the discovery, regulators forced  to redesign and reinforce the facility.
270 los+angeles Despite the EPA’s claims of a “strong partnership with the Navajo Nation,” recent articles have been published that call into question the equitability and efficiency of the EPA’s action on the abandoned uranium mines. Despite the ’s claims of a “strong partnership with the  ,” recent articles have been published that call into question the equitability and efficiency of the ’s action on the abandoned uranium mines.
271 los+angeles On March 31, 2012, The New York Times published an article entitled “Uranium Mines Dot Navajo Land, Neglected and Still Perilous” by Leslie MacMillan. On        published an article entitled “Uranium Mines Dot Navajo Land Neglected and Still Perilous” by  .
272 los+angeles The article suggests that politics and money are influencing the prioritization of mine clean-up efforts. The article suggests that politics and money are influencing the prioritization of mine clean-up efforts.
273 los+angeles David Shafer, an environmental manager at the United States Department of Energy, has said that questions of whether current uranium problems are due to past mining or to the naturally occurring mineral are delaying the process of cleaning up. , an environmental manager at the     , has said that questions  whether  uranium problems are due to  mining or to the naturally occurring mineral are delaying the process  cleaning up.
274 los+angeles Similar concerns are common in environmental remediation projects for victims of industrial pollution. Similar concerns are common in environmental remediation projects for victims of industrial pollution.
275 los+angeles While the EPA does prioritize mines that are nearest to people’s homes, MacMillan highlights some remote locations where people do live and yet have been neglected by the EPA. While the  does prioritize mines that are nearest to people’s homes,  highlights some remote locations where people do live and yet have been neglected by the .
276 los+angeles Cameron, Arizona is one such site which has a population of nearly 1000. ,  is  such site which has a population of  .
277 los+angeles Rancher Larry Gordy stumbled across an abandoned uranium mine on his grazing land for his cattle near Cameron in the summer of 2010. Rancher   stumbled across an abandoned uranium mine on his grazing land for his cattle near  in    .
278 los+angeles There are still no warning signs in the town of Cameron to alert people of potential contamination. There are still no warning signs in the town of  to alert people of potential contamination.
279 los+angeles On December 30, 2010 Scientific American published an article entitled “Abandoned Uranium Mines: An ‘Overwhelming Problem’ in the Navajo Nation” by Francie Diep. On      published an article entitled “Abandoned Uranium Mines: An ‘Overwhelming Problem’ in the Navajo Nation” by  .
280 los+angeles Diep told Gordy’s story and reported that the EPA assessed his site on November 9, 2010. told ’s story and reported that the  assessed his site on   .
281 los+angeles Diep suggested that this date was moved up due to publicity of Gordy’s story; originally the EPA had promised to visit within six months of his original discovery of the uranium mine. suggested that this date was moved up due to publicity of ’s story; originally the  had promised to visit within   of his original discovery of the uranium mine.
282 los+angeles Similar allegations of prioritization due to negative publicity for the EPA were made of the Skyline Mine in the Oljato Mesa. Similar allegations of prioritization due to negative publicity for the  were made of the Skyline Mine in the  .
283 los+angeles Elsie Begay, a 71-year-old Navajo woman from the Oljato region was the topic of a series of articles in The Los Angeles Times in 2006. , a   woman from the Oljato region was the topic of a series of articles in The    in .
284 los+angeles These articles were written by Yellow Dirt: An American Story of a Poisoned Land and a People Betrayed (2010) author Judy Pasternak, whose work on these articles led to her book. These articles were written by Yellow Dirt: An  Story of a Poisoned Land and a   () author  , whose work on these articles led to her book.
285 los+angeles One EPA representative, Jason Musante, stated this publicity “might have bumped the site up the priority list.” representative,  , stated this publicity “might have bumped the site up the priority list.”
286 los+angeles Now over a year after Gordy stumbled across the mine in his cattle’s grazing land, MacMillan reports that the site at Cameron has yet to be given a priority by the EPA. over  yer fter  stumbled cross the mine in his cttle’s grzing lnd, McMilln reports tht the site t Cmeron hs yet to be given  priority by the .
287 los+angeles When EPA officials were asked to accompany a reporter to the Cameron site, the officials declined and instead offered to visit the newly cleaned site in Oljato. When  officials were asked to accompany a reporter to the  site, the officials declined and instead offered to visit the newly cleaned site in .
288 los+angeles MacMillan spoke with a Navajo hotel manager near the Skyline Mine who expressed hesitation about the EPAs remediation, stating, “That’s what they want you to see: something that’s all nice and cleaned up.” spoke with a  hotel manager near the Skyline Mine who expressed hesitation about the EPAs remediation, stating, “That’s what they want you to see: something that’s all nice and cleaned up.”
289 los+angeles MacMillan drew attention to the fact that cows are grazing on contaminated land and people are eating these cattle. drew attention to the fact that cows are grazing on contaminated land and people are eating these cattle.
290 los+angeles Taylor McKinnon, a director at the Center for Biological Diversity, went so far as to say the site was the “worst he had seen in the Southwest.” , a director at the Center for Biological Diversity, went so far as to say the site was the “worst he had seen in the Southwest.”
291 los+angeles Although the locally grown beef is tested, standard tests for meat do not include checking for radioactive substances like uranium. Although the locally grown beef is tested, standard tests for meat do not include checking for radioactive substances like uranium.
292 los+angeles The EPA has put an emphasis on health effects throughout its five-year plan, so the lack of any sort of attention in this matter has raised eyebrows. The  has put an emphasis on health effects throughout its  plan, so the lack of any sort of attention in this matter has raised eyebrows.
293 los+angeles In addition to the questioning of political bias in the prioritization of mining sites, there is criticism of the EPA’s decision to revisit a 1989 permit proposing to mine for uranium near Church Rock. In addition to the questioning of political bias in the prioritization of mining sites, there is criticism of the ’s decision to revisit a  permit proposing to mine for uranium near  .
294 los+angeles New Mexico’s KUNM radio station reported on May 9, 2012 that Uranium Resources Incorporated has expressed interest in starting production near Church Rock by the end of 2013. ’s  radio station reported on    that Uranium Resources Incorporated has expressed interest in starting production near   by    .
295 los+angeles An online petition has already gained nearly 10,000 signatures against this new mining initiative. An online petition has already gained nearly  signatures against this new mining initiative.
296 los+angeles The effect of actinoform clouds on weather systems and climate patterns is still being analyzed. The effect of actinoform clouds on weather systems and climate patterns is still being analyzed.
297 los+angeles Meteorology professor Bjorn Stevens of the University of California, Los Angeles theorizes that they, in conjunction with open-cell stratocumulus clouds, are associated with drizzle formation. Meteorology pressor    the   ,   theorizes that they, in conjunction with open-cell stratocumulus clouds, are associated with drizzle formation.
298 los+angeles Observations from field studies in both the Northeast and Southeast Pacific seem to indicate that when marine stratus and stratocumulus clouds exist alone, in the absence of these open cells, the cloud formations are associated with light, or no, drizzle. Observations from field studies in both the  and   seem to indicate that when marine stratus and stratocumulus clouds exist alone, in the absence of these open cells, the cloud formations are associated with light, or no, drizzle.
299 los+angeles When the open cells are present—and likewise actinoform clouds—there seems to be a corresponding increase in drizzle. When the open cells are —and likewise actinoform clouds—there seems to be a corresponding increase in drizzle.
300 los+angeles Thus, data from recent field studies suggest that the presence of "pockets of open cells" (POCs) and actinoform clouds is related to the onset of precipitation. Thus, data from recent field studies suggest that the presence of "pockets of open cells" (POCs) and actinoform clouds is related to the onset of precipitation.
301 los+angeles In fact, he discovered that the shape of the cloud field reorganizes itself when the clouds begin to rain. In fact, he discovered that the shape of the cloud field reorganizes itself when the clouds begin to rain.
302 los+angeles In the second year of production, the Acura TL was given slightly more features, including a 5-speed automatic transmission with SportShift. In    of production,  Acura TL was given slightly more features, including a 5-speed automatic transmission with SportShift.
303 los+angeles The added gear allowed for slightly better fuel economy and acceleration when compared to the previous 4-speed automatic transmission with SportShift. The added gear allowed for slightly better fuel economy and acceleration when compared to the previous 4-speed automatic transmission with SportShift.
304 los+angeles With this model, if the driver forgets the 1-2 shift the computer will take over when in sport mode and do the 1-2 up and down shifts, unlike the 4-speed 1999 model. With this model, if the driver forgets the  shift the computer will take over when in sport mode and do the  up and down shifts, unlike the 4-speed  model.
305 los+angeles In many vehicles, the 5-speed automatic transmission failed: as the third clutch pack wore, particles blocked off oil passages and prevented the transmission from shifting or holding gears normally. In many vehicles, the 5-speed automatic transmission failed: as the  clutch pack wore, particles blocked off oil passages and prevented the transmission from shifting or holding gears normally.
306 los+angeles The transmission would slip, fail to shift, or suddenly downshift and make the car come to a screeching halt, even at freeway speeds. The transmission would slip, fail to shift, or suddenly downshift and make the car come to a screeching halt, even at freeway speeds.
307 los+angeles This problem was highlighted in the "Los Angeles Times" in September 2002. This problem was highlighted in the "Los Angeles Times" in  .
308 los+angeles "Consumer Reports" took note and gave the TL and CL the black spot, the worst rating for transmission reliability. "Consumer Reports" took note and gave the TL and CL the black spot, the worst rating for transmission reliability.
309 los+angeles In response to the recurring problem, the manufacturer extended the warranty covering the transmission to 7 yrs or  on U.S.A. models. In response to the recurring problem, the manufacturer extended the warranty covering the transmission to   or  on U.S.A. models.
310 los+angeles A class-action lawsuit was settled to extend the transmission warranty for U.S.A. owners or entities to 7.75 years for all models made from 1999 to 2002 and some 2003 models by VIN; however, Canadian owners warranties were not extended. A class-action lawsuit was settled  extend the transmission warranty for  owners or entities    for all models made from    and some  models by VIN; however,  owners warranties were not extended.
311 los+angeles Transmissions replaced prior to March 2005 usually fail again. Transmissions replaced prior to   usually fail again.
312 los+angeles Transmissions replaced from March 2005 and later include a redesigned third gear clutch pack reported to fix the problem. Transmissions replaced from   and later include a redesigned  gear clutch pack reported to fix the problem.
313 los+angeles Following is a list of accidents and incidents experienced by airline. Following is a list of accidents and incidents experienced by airline.
314 los+angeles According to the Aviation Safety Network,  the carrier experienced 12 deadly accidents throughout its history, totalling 335 fatalities. According to the   ,  the carrier experienced  deadly accidents throughout its history, totalling  fatalities.
315 los+angeles The deadliest one occurred in 1961, with a death toll of 67. The deadliest  occurred in , with a death toll of .
316 los+angeles The last accident involving fatalities the company experienced took place in 1970, whereas in 1992 there was a single casualty on a flight bound from Buenos Aires to Los Angeles, when shrimp contaminated with cholera was distributed among the passengers. The last accident involving fatalities the company experienced took place in , whereas in  there was a single casualty on a flight bound from   to  , when shrimp contaminated with cholera was distributed among the passengers.
317 los+angeles The company ranks among the safest airlines in the world. The company ranks among the safest airlines in the world.
318 los+angeles A new economic study of the health impacts and associated costs of air pollution in the Los Angeles Basin and San Joaquin Valley of Southern California shows that more than 3800 people die prematurely (approximately 14 years earlier than normal) each year because air pollution levels violate federal standards. A new economic study  the health impacts and associated costs  air pollution in the    and       shows that more than  people die prematurely (approximately    than normal) each year because air pollution levels violate federal standards.
319 los+angeles The number of annual premature deaths is considerably higher than the fatalities related to auto collisions in the same area, which average fewer than 2,000 per year. The number of annual premature deaths is considerably higher than the fatalities related to auto collisions in the same area, which average fewer than  per .
320 los+angeles It is necessary to mention that first two statistics are computed for typical travels for respective forms of transport, so they cannot be used directly to compare risks related to different forms of transport in a particular travel "from A to B". It is necessary to mention that   statistics are computed for typical travels for respective forms of transport, so they cannot be used directly to compare risks related to different forms of transport in a particular travel "from A to B".
321 los+angeles For example: according to statistics, a typical flight from Los Angeles to New York will carry a larger risk factor than a typical car travel from home to office. For example: according to statistics, a typical flight from   to   will carry a larger risk factor than a typical car travel from home to office.
322 los+angeles But a car travel from Los Angeles to New York would not be typical. But a car travel from   to   would not be typical.
323 los+angeles It would be as large as several dozens of typical car travels, and associated risk will be larger as well. It would be as large as several dozens of typical car travels, and associated risk will be larger as well.
324 los+angeles Because the journey would take a much longer time, the overall risk associated by making this journey by car will be higher than making the same journey by air, even if each individual hour of car travel can be less risky than an hour of flight. Because the journey would take a much longer time, the overall risk associated by making this journey by car will be higher th making the same journey by air, even if each individual  of car travel c be less risky th   of flight.
325 los+angeles In the same vein, when considering the "deaths per billion passenger journeys" statistic, it is important to consider that airliners, buses and trains will carry far more passengers than a car, or bicycle for example. In the same vein, when considering the "deaths per  passenger journeys" statistic, it is important to consider that airliners, buses and trains will carry far more passengers than a car, or bicycle for example.
326 los+angeles A Finnish study concluded, "These data suggest that alcohol consumption is associated with decreased risk of RCC in male smokers. A  study concluded, "These data suggest that alcohol consumption is associated with decreased risk of  in male smokers.
327 los+angeles Because most of the risk reductions were seen at the highest quartile of alcohol intake and alcohol is a risk factor for a number of cancers particularly among smokers, these data should be interpreted with caution." Because most of the risk reductions were seen at the highest quartile of alcohol intake and alcohol is a risk factor for a number of cancers particularly among smokers, these data should be interpreted with caution."
328 los+angeles "Our data suggest an inverse association between alcohol intake and risk of renal cell cancer…" Compared with nondrinkers, men who drank one or more drinks per day had a 31% lower risk of kidney cancer among 161,126 Hawaii-Los Angeles Multiethnic Cohort participants. "Our data suggest an inverse association between alcohol intake and risk of renal cell cancer…" Compared with nondrinkers, men who drank  or more drinks per  had a 31% lower risk of kidney cancer among  Hawaii-Los Angeles Multiethnic Cohort participants.
329 los+angeles According to the "Los Angeles Times", "County health officials acknowledge that the bacterial count at the mouth of the creek—which curls into a warm-water stagnant pond that flushes out onto the beach—is at times alarmingly high, often surpassing the legal limit for California. According to the "Los Angeles Times", "County health officials acknowledge that the bacterial count at the mouth of the creek—which curls into a warm-water stagnant pond that flushes out onto the beach—is at times alarmingly high, often surpassing the legal limit for .
330 los+angeles As a result, the area where the creek meets the sea, and the creek itself, are considered permanently off limits to swimmers and bear prominent signs that warn of the dangers of trespassing into such toxic waters. As a result, the area where the creek meets the sea, and the creek itself, are considered permanently off limits to swimmers and bear prominent signs that warn of the dangers of trespassing into such toxic waters.
331 los+angeles Nevertheless, people do, almost daily. Nevertheless, people do, almost daily.
332 los+angeles Officials from the Orange County Environmental Health Department say that skin rashes, infections, "pink eye" and other assorted ailments are not uncommon to those who use Aliso Beach and, unwittingly, come in contact with the creek and its invisible bacteria...". Officials from the      say that skin rashes, infections, "pink eye" and other assorted ailments are not uncommon to those who use   and, unwittingly, come in contact with the creek and its invisible bacteria...".
333 los+angeles The problems facing the creeks are blamed almost entirely on urbanization, which has deprived the creeks of needed sediment while increasing pollution. The problems facing the creeks are blamed almost entirely on urbanization, which has deprived the creeks of needed sediment while increasing pollution.
334 los+angeles In 1978, the AVJUHSD challenged the constitutionality of California Proposition 13, which placed a cap on county real estate taxes. In , the AVJUHSD challenged the constitutionality of  Proposition , which placed a cap on county real estate taxes.
335 los+angeles The proposition limited property tax assessments to the 1975 standard, eliminating $7 billion of the $11.4 billion in property tax revenue collected each year. The proposition limited property tax assessments to the  standard, eliminating $7 billion of the $11.4 billion in property tax revenue collected each year.
336 los+angeles According to the "Washington Post", the "severe" limitations this imposed on state funding forced local governments and most school districts in California to make "drastic cutbacks". According to the "Washington Post", the "severe" limitations this imposed on state funding forced local governments and most school districts in  to make "drastic cutbacks".
337 los+angeles Furthermore, an article in the "Los Angeles Times" noted that Federal aid money for Californian schools, worth about $98 million each year, may be reduced if state-funded programs are cut. Furthermore, an article in the "Los Angeles Times" noted that Federal aid money for  schools, worth about $98 million each year, may be reduced if state-funded programs are cut.
338 los+angeles A recent Congressional report had found that Proposition 13 would not result in any major "local spending" cuts. A recent  report had found that Proposition  would not result in any major "local spending" cuts.
339 los+angeles In order to receive Federal aid, the state needed to maintain present levels of spending on local programs or secure local matching funds. In order to receive Federal aid, the state needed to maintain  levels of spending on local programs or secure local matching funds.
340 los+angeles However, the enforcement of this spending was "flexible in many programs" and the Federal Impact Aid program for schools was therefore in jeopardy. However, the enforcement of this spending was "flexible in many programs" and the Federal Impact Aid program for schools was therefore in jeopardy.
341 los+angeles Over its lifetime, the AA was weakened by several factors. Over its lifetime, the AA was weakened by several factors.
342 los+angeles One was the tendency of some of its teams to jump to the NL. was the tendency of some of its teams to jump to the .
343 los+angeles The consistently stronger NL was in better position to survive adverse conditions. The consistently stronger  was in better position to survive adverse conditions.
344 los+angeles Some owners of AA teams also owned a NL team. Some owners of AA teams also owned a  team.
345 los+angeles The most significant blow to the AA was dealt by the Players' League, a third major league formed in , which siphoned off talent and gate receipts. The most significant blow to the AA was dealt by the  , a  major league formed in , which siphoned off talent and gate receipts.
346 los+angeles In a rare historical oddity, the Brooklyn Bridegrooms (now the Los Angeles Dodgers) won the league's championship and represented the AA in the  World's Series, switched to the NL during the off-season, and then repeated the same feat. In a rare historical oddity, the  Bridegrooms ( the   ) won the league championship and represented the AA in the   , switched to the NL during the off-season, and then repeated the same feat.
347 los+angeles In 1981, Francis becomes aware of a growing number of deaths from unexplained sources among gay men in Los Angeles, New York City and San Francisco, and is prompted to begin an in-depth investigation of the possible causes. In ,  becomes aware of a growing number of deaths from unexplained sources among gay men in  ,    and  co, and is prompted to begin an in-depth investigation of the possible causes.
348 los+angeles Working with no money, limited space, and outdated equipment, he comes in contact with politicians and numerous members of the medical community, many of whom resent his involvement because of their personal agendas, and gay leaders. Working with no money, limited space, and outdated equipment, he comes in contact with politicians and numerous members of the medical community, many of whom resent his involvement because of their personal agendas, and gay leaders.
349 los+angeles Of the latter, some—such as Bill Kraus—support him, while others express resentment at what they see as unwanted interference in their lifestyles, especially his attempts to close the local bathhouses. Of the latter, some—such as  —support him, while others express resentment at what they see as unwanted interference in their lifestyles, especially his attempts to close the local bathhouses.
350 los+angeles While Francis pursues his theory that AIDS is caused by a sexually transmitted virus on the model of feline leukemia, he finds his efforts are stonewalled by, among others, the CDC, which is loath to prove the disease is transmitted through blood, and competing French and American scientists, particularly Dr. Robert Gallo, who squabble about who should receive credit for discovering the virus. While  pursues his theory that  is caused by a sexually transmitted virus on the model of feline leukemia, he finds his efforts are stonewalled by, among others, the , which is loath to prove the disease is transmitted through blood, and competing  and  scientists, particularly Dr.  , who squabble about who should receive credit for discovering the virus.
351 los+angeles Meanwhile, the death toll climbs rapidly. Meanwhile, the death toll climbs rapidly.
352 los+angeles Modern psychologists point out that suppression of anger may have harmful effects. psychologists point out that suppression of anger may have harmful effects.
353 los+angeles The suppressed anger may find another outlet, such as a physical symptom, or become more extreme. The suppressed anger may find another outlet, such as a physical symptom, or become more extreme.
354 los+angeles John W. Fiero cites Los Angeles riots of 1992 as an example of sudden, explosive release of suppressed anger. cites   riots of  as an example of sudden, explosive release of suppressed anger.
355 los+angeles The anger was then displaced as violence against those who had nothing to do with the matter. The anger was then displaced as violence against those who had nothing to do with the matter.
356 los+angeles Another example of widespread deflection of anger from its actual cause toward scapegoating, Fiero says, was the blaming of Jews for the economic ills of Germany by the Nazis. Another example of widespread deflection of anger from its actual cause toward scapegoating,  says, was the blaming of  for the economic ills of  by the .
357 los+angeles The defense encompasses the very difficulties that Jones posits here: sleeping on the streets because alternatives were inadequate and economic forces were primarily to blame for his predicament. The defense encompasses the very difficulties that  posits here: sleeping on the streets because alternatives were inadequate and economic forces were primarily to blame for his predicament.
358 los+angeles Id. at 390. Id.at .
359 los+angeles Jones argues that he and other homeless people are not willing or able to pursue such a defense because the costs of pleading guilty are so low and the risks and challenges of pleading innocent are substantial. argues that he and other homeless people are not willing or able to pursue such a defense because the costs of pleading guilty are so low and the risks and challenges of pleading innocent are substantial.
360 los+angeles " &mdash; id. at 568 n.31 (Fortas, J., dissenting); the Eighth Amendment prohibits the City from punishing involuntary sitting, lying, or sleeping on public sidewalks that is an unavoidable consequence of being human and homeless without shelter in the City of Los Angeles." " &mdash; id.at  n. (Fortas, J., dissenting); the  Amendment prohibits the City from punishing involuntary sitting, lying, or sleeping on public sidewalks that is an unavoidable consequence of being human and homeless without shelter in the City of  ."
361 los+angeles The circulation around mid-level ridges, and the subsidence at their center, act to steer tropical cyclones around their periphery. The circulation around mid-level ridges, and the subsidence at their center, act to steer tropical cyclones around their periphery.
362 los+angeles Due to the subsidence within this type of system, a "cap" can be set up which inhibits the development of free convection. Due to the subsidence within this type of system, a "cap" can be set up which inhibits the development of free convection.
363 los+angeles This limits thunderstorm activity near their center, and traps low-level pollutants such as ozone as haze under their base, which is a significant problem in large urban centers during summer months such as Los Angeles, California and Mexico City, Mexico. This limits thunderstorm activity near their center, and traps low-level pollutants such as ozone as haze under their base, which is a significant problem in large urban centers during   such as  ,  and  , .
364 los+angeles In spite of those factors, the Outlaws averaged 21,038 fans (in a 40,000-seat stadium), 14th in the league. In spite of those factors, the  averaged  fans (in a 40,000-seat stadium),  in the league.
365 los+angeles It might have been even higher if not for brutally cold and wet early-season weather and what amounted to season-long lame duck status. It might have been even higher if not for brutally cold and wet early-season weather and what amounted to season-long lame duck status.
366 los+angeles While Tulsa as a USFL host city had a number of legitimate problems, fan turnout was surprisingly respectable, especially compared to the crippling attendance numbers seen by USFL teams in Chicago (7,455), Washington (7,694) and Los Angeles (15,361). While  as a  host city had a number of legitimate problems, fan turnout was surprisingly respectable, especially compared to the crippling attendance numbers seen by  teams in  (),  () and   ().
367 los+angeles They were also one of eight teams whose average attendance was 45 percent or more of listed capacity. They were also  of  teams whose average attendance was 45 percent or more of listed capacity.
368 los+angeles The Outlaws would draw decent crowds of 25,403, 21,625, 22,017 and 29,324 later in the season. The  would draw decent crowds of , ,  and  later in the season.
369 los+angeles On 26 February 2008, THEMIS probes were able to determine, for the first time, the triggering event for the onset of magnetospheric substorms. On   , THEMIS probes were able to determine, for the  time, the triggering event for the onset of magnetospheric substorms.
370 los+angeles Two of the five probes, positioned approximately one third the distance to the moon, measured events suggesting a magnetic reconnection event 96 seconds prior to auroral intensification. of the  probes, positid approximately   the distance to the moon, measured events suggesting a magnetic reconnection event   prior to auroral intensification.
371 los+angeles Dr. Vassilis Angelopoulos of the University of California, Los Angeles, the principal investigator for the THEMIS mission, claimed, "Our data show clearly and for the first time that magnetic reconnection is the trigger." Dr.    the   ,  , the principal investigator for the THEMIS mission, claimed, "Our data show clearly and for the  time that magnetic reconnection is the trigger."
372 los+angeles The "Baldwin Hills Reservoir" was a water storage basin located on a low hilltop in Baldwin Hills, Los Angeles, California. The "  Reservoir" was a water storage basin located on a low hilltop in  ,  , .
373 los+angeles It was constructed between 1947 and 1951 by the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power directly on an active fault line which was subsidiary to the well known nearby Newport-Inglewood fault. It was constructed between    by the        directly on an active fault line which was subsidiary to the well known nearby Newport-Inglewood fault.
374 los+angeles The underlying geologic strata were considered unstable for a reservoir, and the design called for a compacted soil lining meant to prevent seepage into the foundation. The underlying geologic strata were considered unstable for a reservoir, and the design called for a compacted soil lining meant to prevent seepage into the foundation.
375 los+angeles The fault lines were considered during planning but were deemed by some, although not all, of the engineers and geologists involved as not significant. The fault lines were considered during planning but were deemed by some, although not all, of the engineers and geologists involved as not significant.
376 los+angeles Late 1963, when the failure occurred, was a time of notable public disasters; only a few weeks before the Italian Vajont Dam had failed, drowning 2000 people. , when the filure occurred, ws  time of notble public dissters; only    before the Itlin Vjont Dm hd filed, drowning  people.
377 los+angeles The failure of the Baldwin Hills Reservoir, which was built to assure safe water for the people of Los Angeles in case of catastrophes such as earthquake, fire, and war, was a blow to engineering confidence, and its failure was the subject of many writings and two professional conferences (1972 and 1987, see references) in the twenty five years following the failure. The failure of    , which was built to assure safe water for  people of   in case of catastrophes such as earthquake, fire, and war, was a blow to engineering confidence, and its failure was  subject of many writings and  professional conferences ( and , see references) in     following  failure.
378 los+angeles The failure occurred shortly after the death of the authoritative Harvard engineer Karl Terzaghi whose ideas had long dominated both the engineering science of soil mechanics and earth dam engineering. The failure occurred shortly after the death of the authoritative  engineer   whose ideas had long dominated both the engineering science of soil mechanics and earth dam engineering.
379 los+angeles Terzaghi had also made significant contributions to understanding subsidence in oilfields. had also made significant contributions to understanding subsidence in oilfields.
380 los+angeles This left the assessment of the Baldwin Hills failure in the hands of his successors, who took on conflicting roles as experts in various lawsuits. This left the assessment of the   failure in the hands of his successors, who took on conflicting roles as experts in various lawsuits.
381 los+angeles The urbanization of the watershed, and associated with it the pollution of urban runoff and stormwater, has degraded the water quality in Ballona Creek and its Estuary. The urbanization of the watershed, and associated with it the pollution of urban runoff and stormwater, has degraded the water quality in   and its Estuary.
382 los+angeles Ballona Creek is listed by the Los Angeles Regional Water Quality Control Board impaired for fecal coliform, heavy metals, and pesticides. is listed by the        impaired for fecal coliform, heavy metals, and pesticides.
383 los+angeles Dry weather urban runoff and storm water, both conveyed by storm drains, are the primary sources of pollutions in the Creek. Dry weather urban runoff and storm water, both conveyed by storm drains, are the primary sources of pollutions in the .
384 los+angeles Many of the recessions in the United States were caused by banking panics. Many of the recessions in the   were caused by banking panics.
385 los+angeles The Great Depression contained several banking crises consisting of runs on multiple banks from 1929 to 1933; some of these were specific to regions of the U.S. Banking panics began in October 1930, one year after the stock market crash, triggered by the collapse of correspondent networks; the bank runs became worse after financial conglomerates in New York and Los Angeles failed in prominently-covered scandals. The Great Depression contained several banking crises consisting of runs on multiple banks from   ; some of these were specific  regions of the  Banking panics began in Ocber ,   after the sck market crash, triggered by the collapse of correspondent networks; the bank runs became worse after financial conglomerates in   and   failed in prominently-covered scandals.
386 los+angeles Much of the Depression's economic damage was caused directly by bank runs, and institutions put into place after the Depression have prevented runs on U.S. commercial banks since the 1930s, even under conditions such as the U.S. savings and loan crisis of the 1980s and 1990s. Much of  Depression's economic damage was caused directly by bank runs, and institutions put into place after  Depression have prevented runs on  commercial banks since  , even under conditions such as   savings and loan crisis of   and .
387 los+angeles The Depression's bank runs left a lasting mark on the American psyche, exhibited in sometimes disturbing images such as the bleak scenes in the movie "It's a Wonderful Life", where the fictional hero George Bailey struggles to keep his Building & Loan open with a crowd of customers demanding their deposits. The Depression's bank runs left a lasting mark on the  psyche, exhibited in sometimes disturbing images such as the bleak scenes in the movie "It's a Wonderful Life", where the fictional hero   struggles to keep his Building & Loan open with a crowd of customers demanding their deposits.
388 los+angeles To prevent "cheap" home runs, baseball leagues may specify a minimum distance from home plate to the outfield fences. To prevent "cheap" home runs, baseball leagues may specify a minimum distance from home plate to the outfield fences.
389 los+angeles Generally, the higher the skill level, the deeper the minimum dimensions must be, to prevent an excess of home runs. Generally, the higher the skill level, the deeper the minimum dimensions must be, to prevent an excess of home runs.
390 los+angeles In the major leagues, a rule was passed in 1958 that compelled any new fields built after that point to have a minimum distance of  from home plate to the fences in left and right field, and  to center. In the major leagues, a rule was passed in  that compelled any new fields built after that point to have a minimum distance of  from home plate to the fences in left and right field, and  to center.
391 los+angeles (Rule 1.04, Note(a)). (Rule , Note(a)).
392 los+angeles This rule was passed to avoid situations like the Los Angeles Coliseum, which was . This rule was passed to avoid situations like the Los Angeles Coliseum, which was .
393 los+angeles down the left field line. down the left field line.
394 los+angeles For   over  30 years, the   fields of  personality and  social  psychology have been   influenced by  the   work  of  Bernard  Weiner. For   over   , the   fields of  personality and  social  psychology have been   influenced by  the   work  of    .
395 los+angeles His attribution theory of  motivation and  emotions  has  contributed greatly to the   educational  psychologist's  understanding  of   how  perceived  causation  influences  motivation,  behavior,  and  emotions. His attribution theory of  motivation and  emotions  has  contributed greatly to the   educational  psychologist's  understanding  of   how  perceived  causation  influences  motivation,  behavior,  and  emotions.
396 los+angeles This  theory  has  been   applied  to  a  wide  range  of  topics and  has been  supported by numerous  empirical studies.c This  theory  has  been   applied  to  a  wide  range  of  topics and  has been  supported by numerous  empirical studies.c
397 los+angeles Today, Dr. Weiner can be reached at the University of California, Los Angeles, Psychology Department, Franz Hall, Los Angeles, California 90024, where he continues his work on the attribution theory and motivation. , Dr.  can be reached at the   ,  , Psychology Department,  ,  ,  , where he continues his work on the attribution theory and motivation.
398 los+angeles Weiner (1972, 1974) also discussed attribution theory, he proposed four general explanations which are attributed to events. (, ) also discussed attribution theory, he proposed  general explanations which are attributed to events.
399 los+angeles These four explanations fall into categories of either internal or external and stable or unstable. These  explanations fall into categories of either internal or external and stable or unstable.
400 los+angeles The internal external category links to Rotter’s (1956) Locus of Control theory which refers to the extent individuals believe they can control evens. The internal external category links to ’s () Locus of Control theory which refers to the extent individuals believe they can control evens.
401 los+angeles Those with an internal locus of control believe events are a result of their own behaviours and actions whereas those with an external locus of control believe events are due to powerful others, fate or chance. Those with an internal locus of control believe events are a result of their own behaviours and actions whereas those with an external locus of control believe events are due to powerful others, fate or chance.
402 los+angeles Weiner (1972) explained internal (the person) or external (the situation) explanatons are the most fundamental distinction among causal explanations. () explained internal (the person) or external (the situation) explanatons are the most fundamental distinction among causal explanations.
403 los+angeles Inreference to stability, stable is something unchanging and permanent and unstable is something subject to change. Inreference to stability, stable is something unchanging and permanent and unstable is something subject to change.
404 los+angeles Weiner’s four explanations are defined using these categories, they are: Skill or ability which is internal stable, Effort which is internal unstable, Task difficulty which is external stable and Luck which is external unstable ’s  explanations are defined using these categories, they are: Skill or ability which is internal stable, Effort which is internal unstable, Task difficulty which is external stable and Luck which is external unstable
405 los+angeles The field is a faulted anticlinal structure with oil trapped by a combination of structural and stratigraphic mechanisms. The field is a faulted anticlinal structure with oil trapped by a combination of structural and stratigraphic mechanisms.
406 los+angeles Bounding the field on the south is the Brentwood-Las Cienegas Fault, and the field ends on the west near the Santa Monica Fault Complex. Bounding the field on the south is the   , and the field ends on the west near the    Complex.
407 los+angeles The minimum depth to the larger deposits of profitably extractable oil varies from about 5600 to about  below ground surface, or 5400 to  below sea level (as the approximate elevation of this portion of the Los Angeles Basin is about 200 feet). The minimum depth to the larger deposits of profitably extractable oil varies from about  to about  below ground surface, or  to  below sea level (as the approximate elevation of this portion of the    is about  feet).
408 los+angeles Hinckley, then church president, told the Los Angeles Times "The 1978 declaration speaks for itself ... I don't see anything further that we need to do". , then church president, told the    "The  declaration speaks for itself ... I don't see anything further that we need to do".
409 los+angeles Church leadership did not issue a repudiation. Church leadership did not issue a repudiation.
410 los+angeles Church apostle Dallin H. Oaks said: "It's not the pattern of the Lord to give reasons. Church apostle    said: "It's not the pattern of the Lord to give reasons.
411 los+angeles We can put reasons to commandments. We can put reasons to commandments.
412 los+angeles When we do we're on our own. When we do we're on our own.
413 los+angeles Some people put reasons to [the ban] and they turned out to be spectacularly wrong. Some people put reasons to [the ban] and they turned out to be spectacularly wrong.
414 los+angeles There is a lesson in that.... There is a lesson in that....
415 los+angeles The lesson I've drawn from that, I decided a long time ago that I had faith in the command and I had no faith in the reasons that had been suggested for it... I'm referring to reasons given by general authorities and reasons elaborated upon [those reasons] by others. The lesson I've drawn from that, I decided a long time ago that I had faith in the command and I had no faith in the reasons that had been suggested for it... I'm referring to reasons given by general authorities and reasons elaborated upon [those reasons] by others.
416 los+angeles The whole set of reasons seemed to me to be unnecessary risk taking... Let's [not] make the mistake that's been made in the past, here and in other areas, trying to put reasons to revelation. The whole set of reasons seemed to me to be unnecessary risk taking... Let's [not] make  mistake that's been made in  , here and in or areas, trying to put reasons to revelation.
417 los+angeles The reasons turn out to be man-made to a great extent. The reasons turn out to be man-made to a great extent.
418 los+angeles The revelations are what we sustain as the will of the Lord and that's where safety lies." The revelations are what we sustain as the will of the Lord and that's where safety lies."
419 los+angeles Hinckley, then church president, told the Los Angeles Times "The 1978 declaration speaks for itself ... I don't see anything further that we need to do". , then church president, told the    "The  declaration speaks for itself ... I don't see anything further that we need to do".
420 los+angeles Church leadership did not issue a repudiation. Church leadership did not issue a repudiation.
421 los+angeles Church apostle Dallin H. Oaks said: "It's not the pattern of the Lord to give reasons. Church apostle    said: "It's not the pattern of the Lord to give reasons.
422 los+angeles We can put reasons to commandments. We can put reasons to commandments.
423 los+angeles When we do we're on our own. When we do we're on our own.
424 los+angeles Some people put reasons to [the ban] and they turned out to be spectacularly wrong. Some people put reasons to [the ban] and they turned out to be spectacularly wrong.
425 los+angeles There is a lesson in that.... There is a lesson in that....
426 los+angeles The lesson I've drawn from that, I decided a long time ago that I had faith in the command and I had no faith in the reasons that had been suggested for it... I'm referring to reasons given by general authorities and reasons elaborated upon [those reasons] by others. The lesson I've drawn from that, I decided a long time ago that I had faith in the command and I had no faith in the reasons that had been suggested for it... I'm referring to reasons given by general authorities and reasons elaborated upon [those reasons] by others.
427 los+angeles The whole set of reasons seemed to me to be unnecessary risk taking... Let's [not] make the mistake that's been made in the past, here and in other areas, trying to put reasons to revelation. The whole set of reasons seemed to me to be unnecessary risk taking... Let's [not] make  mistake that's been made in  , here and in or areas, trying to put reasons to revelation.
428 los+angeles The reasons turn out to be man-made to a great extent. The reasons turn out to be man-made to a great extent.
429 los+angeles The revelations are what we sustain as the will of the Lord and that's where safety lies." The revelations are what we sustain as the will of the Lord and that's where safety lies."
430 los+angeles :""The MBL has one of the highest ridership counts for light rail lines in the Country. :""The  has  of the highest ridership counts for light rail lines in the Country.
431 los+angeles This factor is perhaps the most important contributor to the grade crossing accident rate. This factor is perhaps the most important contributor to the grade crossing accident rate.
432 los+angeles The high ridership results in increased pedestrian traffic near stations as compared to other light rail systems. The high ridership results in increased pedestrian traffic near stations as compared to other light rail systems.
433 los+angeles In addition, although MTA Operations does not allow high passenger loads dictate safe operations, there is pressure to maintain travel times and headway schedule requirements (e.g., passenger trip from Los Angeles to Long Beach in less than one hour)."" In addition, although  Operations does not allow high passenger loads dictate safe operations, there is pressure to maintain travel times and headway schedule requirements (e.g., passenger trip from   to   in    ).""
434 los+angeles Of all of the races presented as possible examples of the Bradley effect theory, perhaps the one most fiercely rebutted by the theory's critics is the 1982 Bradley/Deukmejian contest itself. Of all of the races presented as possible examples of the  effect theory, perhaps the  most fiercely rebutted by the theory's critics is the  /Deukmejian contest itself.
435 los+angeles People involved with both campaigns, as well as those involved with the inaccurate polls have refuted the significance of the Bradley effect in determining that election's outcome. People involved with both campaigns, as well as those involved with the inaccurate polls have refuted the significance of the Bradley effect in determining that election's outcome.
436 los+angeles Former "Los Angeles Times" reporter Joe Mathews said that he talked to more than a dozen people who played significant roles in either the Bradley or Deukmejian campaign and that only two felt there was a significant race-based component to the polling failures. Former "Los Angeles Times" reporter   said that he talked to more than a  people who played significant roles in either the  or  campaign and that only  felt there was a significant race-based component to the polling failures.
437 los+angeles Mark DiCamillo, Director of The Field Poll, which was among those that had shown Bradley with a strong lead, has not ruled out the possibility of a Bradley effect as a minor factor, but also said that the organization's own internal examination after that election identified other possible factors that may have contributed to their error, including a shift in voter preference after the final pre-election polls and a high profile ballot initiative in the same election, a Republican absentee ballot program and a low minority turnout, each of which may have caused pre-election polls to inaccurately predict which respondents were likely voters.Russo, Frank D. (2008, January 9). Director of The Field Poll which was among those that had shown  with a strong lead has not ruled out the possibility of a  effect as a minor factor but also said that the organization's own internal examination after that election identified other possible factors that may have contributed to their error including a shift in voter preference after the final pre-election polls and a high profile ballot initiative in the same election a  absentee ballot program and a low minority turnout each of which may have caused pre-election polls to inaccurately predict which respondents were likely voters.Russo Frank D. (  ).
438 los+angeles [http://www.californiaprogressreport.com/2008/01/the_bradley_eff.html [http://www.californiaprogressreport.com/2008/01/the_bradley_eff.html
439 los+angeles The "Bradley Effect" on Obama-Clinton Polling in New Hampshire May Be Overstated] "While the 1982 California gubernatorial contest is not the only race where the race of the candidate has been thought to be a factor in polling gone awry, there are a number of other reasons why the Field Poll may not have been accurate. The "Bradley Effect" on Obama-Clinton Polling in    Be Overstated] "While the   gubernatorial contest is not the only race where the race of the candidate has been thought to be a factor in polling gone awry, there are a number of other reasons why the Field Poll may not have been accurate.
440 los+angeles I spoke with Mark DiCamillo, Director of the Field Poll—whose phone has been ringing off the hook about this today. I spoke with  , Director of the Field Poll—whose phone has been ringing off the hook   .
441 los+angeles He told me that there was a memo done by the polling organization shortly after the election to try to understand what had occurred (not available online as it predated the internet) that identified four possible factors: 1. He told me that there was a memo done by the polling organization shortly after the election to try to understand what had occurred (not available online as it predated the internet) that identified  possible factors: .
442 los+angeles A late shift in voter preference after the poll, which could have reflected bias. A late shift in voter preference after the poll, which could have reflected bias.
443 los+angeles 2. A well organized GOP absentee ballot program (Bradley won the day of election results). .A well organized  absentee ballot program ( won   of election results).
444 los+angeles 3. The presence of a handgun initiative on the same ballot that brought out a skewed electorate different from the model used to predict likely voters. .The presence of a handgun initiative on the same ballot that brought out a skewed electorate different from the model used to predict likely voters.
445 los+angeles 4. Lower turnout by minorities because Bradley did not turn out the base of black voters. .Lower turnout by minorities because  did not turn out the base of black voters.
446 los+angeles The causes of the polling errors are debated, but pollsters generally believe that perceived societal pressures have led some white voters to be less than forthcoming in their poll responses. The causes of the polling errors are debated, but pollsters generally believe that perceived societal pressures have led some white voters to be less than forthcoming in their poll responses.
447 los+angeles These voters supposedly have harbored a concern that declaring their support for a white candidate over a non-white candidate will create a perception that the voter is racially prejudiced.Rowland, Ashley. These voters supposedly have harbored a concern that declaring their support for a white candidate over a non-white candidate will create a perception that the voter is racially prejudiced.Rowland, .
448 los+angeles (2006, November 12). (  ).
449 los+angeles "[http://timesfreepress.com/absolutenm/templates/politicalnews.aspx?articleid=7284&zoneid=66 "[http://timesfreepress.com/absolutenm/templates/politicalnews.aspx?articleid=7284&zoneid=66
450 los+angeles Impact of race on Ford's defeat debated]", "Chattanooga Times Free Press""Many experts predicted Rep. Ford would lose by a wider margin than he did because some of his white supporters would desert him – a pattern first documented in 1982, when former Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley lost the California governor's race by a larger-than-expected margin. Impact of race on 's defeat debated]", "   ""Many experts predicted Rep.  would lose by a wider margin than he did because some of his white supporters would desert him – a pattern  documented in , when former   Mayor   lost the  governor's race by a larger-than-expected margin.
451 los+angeles Researchers said white voters felt social pressure to tell pollsters they would vote for Mr. Bradley, who was black, but voted for his white opponent when they cast their ballots.Dr. Researchers said white voters felt social pressure to tell pollsters they would vote for Mr. , who was black, but voted for his white opponent when they cast their ballots.Dr.
452 los+angeles Swain said the close margin of victory in the Corker-Ford contest shows whites did vote for Rep. Ford, and the 'Bradley effect' may be lessening."Biegelsen, said the close margin of victory in the  contest shows whites did vote for Rep. , and the 'Bradley effect' may be lessening.",
453 los+angeles Amy. .
454 los+angeles (2008, January 9). (  ).
455 los+angeles "[http://www.styleweekly.com/article.asp?idarticle=16054 Obama's Wilder Lesson]", "Style Weekly""In 1989, nobody saw it coming save Paul Goldman, Wilder’s longtime political Svengali, and Wilder – now Richmond’s mayor – himself. "[http://www.styleweekly.com/article.asp?idarticle=16054 's  Lesson]", "Style Weekly""In , nobody saw it coming save  , ’s longtime political Svengali, and  –  ’s mayor – himself.
456 los+angeles Thanks in part to advice from campaign pollster Michael Donilon, who went on to advise John Kerry’s 2004 bid for the White House, Goldman assumed that anything short of a definitive commitment of support from a white poll respondent couldn’t be trusted and weighted his poll’s statistical model accordingly. Thanks in part to advice from campaign pollster  , who went on to advise  ’s  bid for the  ,  assumed that anything short of a definitive commitment of support from a white poll respondent couldn’t be trusted and weighted his poll’s statistical model accordingly.
457 los+angeles His poll indicated a virtual tossup, putting Wilder’s chances at 50-50. His poll indicated a virtual tossup, putting ’s chances at .
458 los+angeles ... 'This was a historic campaign,' Goldman says. ... 'This was a historic campaign,'  says.
459 los+angeles 'Everybody was talking about it – race, race, race – so you give whatever answer’s the socially acceptable one.'" 'Everybody was talking about it – race, race, race – so you give whatever answer’s the socially acceptable .'"
460 los+angeles During the 1988 Jackson presidential campaign, Murray Edelman, a veteran election poll analyst for news organizations and a former president of the American Association for Public Opinion Research, found the race of the pollster conducting the interview to be a factor in the discrepancy. During the   presidential campaign,  , a veteran election poll analyst  news organizations and a mer president of the      , found the race of the pollster conducting the interview to be a factor in the discrepancy.
461 los+angeles Edelman's research showed white voters to be more likely to indicate support for Jackson when asked by a black interviewer than when asked by a white interviewer.Elder, Janet. 's research showed white voters to be more likely to indicate support for  when asked by a black interviewer than when asked by a white interviewer.Elder, .
462 los+angeles (2007, May 16). (  ).
463 los+angeles "[http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/16/us/politics/16web-elder.html "[
464 los+angeles Will There Be an 'Obama Effect?']", "The New York Times""In high-profile contests where one of the major party candidates is black, pre-election telephone polls have often been wrong, overstating the strength of the black candidate. Will There Be an 'Obama Effect?']", "The   ""In high-profile contests where  of the major party candidates is black, pre-election teleph polls have often been wrong, overstating the strength of the black candidate.
465 los+angeles In polling circles this is known as the 'Bradley effect' or the 'Wilder effect' or the 'Dinkins effect.'""During In polling circles this is known as the 'Bradley effect' or the 'Wilder effect' or the 'Dinkins effect.'""During
466 los+angeles Jesse Jackson’s bid for the Democratic presidential nomination in 1988, Murray Edelman of CBS News and Rutgers University took a look at the effect the race of the interviewer might have had on the way people answered questions about who they intended to vote for. ’s bid for the  presidential nomination in ,   of   and   took a look at the effect the race of the interviewer might have had on the way people answered questions about who they intended to vote for.
467 los+angeles 'White respondents showed more support for Jackson when talking to black interviewers than the other way around,' said Mr. Edelman. 'White respondents showed more support for  when talking to black interviewers than the other way around,' said Mr. .
468 los+angeles 'The support for Jackson was less when white respondents talked to white interviewers.'""Writing in The Polling Report, Mr. Brodnitz said the race of the interviewer was not a factor in their polling in 2006. 'The support for  was less when white respondents talked to white interviewers.'""Writing in The Polling Report, Mr.  said the race of the interviewer was not a factor in their polling in .
469 los+angeles Mr. Brodnitz said that problems in the final pre-election public polls had nothing to do with race, but were caused by methodology. Mr.  said that problems in the final pre-election public polls had nothing to do with race, but were caused by methodology.
470 los+angeles The 2008 presidential campaign of Barack Obama, a black United States Senator, brought a heightened level of scrutiny to the Bradley effect, as observers searched for signs of the effect in comparing Obama's polling numbers to the actual election results during the Democratic primary elections.Jones, Jackie. The  presidential campaign of  , a black   Senator, brought a heightened level of scrutiny to the  effect, as observers searched for signs of the effect in comparing 's polling numbers to the actual election results during the  primary elections.Jones, .
471 los+angeles (2008, January 2). (  ).
472 los+angeles "[http://www.blackamericaweb.com/site.aspx/bawnews/obamaelectability103 "[http://www.blackamericaweb.com/site.aspx/bawnews/obamaelectability103
473 los+angeles Barack Obama, Unelectable ‘Hopemonger?’ , Unelectable ‘Hopemonger?’
474 los+angeles Campaign, Polls Proving the Naysayers Wrong]", [http://blackamericaweb.com BlackAmericaWeb.com]"Still, Campaign, Polls Proving the Naysayers Wrong]", [http://blackamericaweb.com BlackAmericaWeb.com]"Still,
475 los+angeles there are people who believe what Edley called 'the Bradley factor' could stall Obama’s campaign. there are people who believe what  called 'the  factor' could stall ’s campaign.
476 los+angeles When Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley ran for governor in California in 1982, all the polls had him leading handily, 'but when people got behind the curtain, they couldn’t pull the lever' for him, Edley said. When   Mayor   ran for governor in  in , all the polls had him leading handily, 'but when people got behind the curtain, they couldn’t pull the lever' for him,  said.
477 los+angeles 'The question is to what extent does that Bradley effect still an effect 25 years later?'" 'The question is to what extent does that  effect still an effect   ?'"
478 los+angeles After a victorious showing in the Iowa caucuses, where votes were cast publicly, polls predicted that Obama would also capture the New Hampshire Democratic primary election by a large margin over Hillary Clinton, a white senator. After a victorious showing in the  caucuses, where votes were cast publicly, polls predicted that  would also capture the    primary election by a large margin over  , a white senator.
479 los+angeles However, Clinton defeated Obama by three points in the New Hampshire race, where ballots were cast secretly, immediately initiating suggestions by some analysts that the Bradley effect may have been at work.Tabin, John. However,  defeated  by  points in the   race, where ballots were cast secretly, immediately initiating suggestions by some analysts that the  effect may have been at work.Tabin, .
480 los+angeles (2008, January 9). (  ).
481 los+angeles "[http://www.spectator.org/dsp_article.asp?art_id=12552 "[http://www.spectator.org/dsp_article.asp?art_id=12552
482 los+angeles It's Crying Time Again]", "The American Spectator""So how did she do it? It's Crying Time Again]", "The  ""So how did she do it?
483 los+angeles How did Hillary Clinton defy Barack Obama's double-digit lead in the New Hampshire polls and pull out a victory yesterday? How did   defy  's double-digit lead in the   polls and pull out a victory ?
484 los+angeles Hindsight being 20/20, we can now see that she had a few things going for her. Hindsight being , we can  see that she had a few things going for her.
485 los+angeles ...The Bradley Effect. ...The Bradley Effect.
486 los+angeles Named for Tom Bradley, the Los Angeles mayor who narrowly lost the 1982 race for California governor despite a lead in the polls, this is the tendency of black candidates to under-perform their poll numbers. Named for  , the   mayor who narrowly lost the  race for  governor despite a lead in the polls, this is the tendency of black candidates to under-perform their poll numbers.
487 los+angeles Whether because of closet racism or a more innocent reluctance to appear politically incorrect, a statistically significant number of voters often tell pollsters they'll vote for a black candidate, but turn around and vote for a white opponent in the privacy of the ballot box. Whether because of closet racism or a more innocent reluctance to appear politically incorrect, a statistically significant number of voters often tell pollsters they'll vote for a black candidate, but turn around and vote for a white opponent in the privacy of the ballot box.
488 los+angeles The effect seems to have diminished in recent election cycles, but may have played a role in New Hampshire." The effect seems to have diminished in recent election cycles, but may have played a role in  ."
489 los+angeles Other analysts cast doubt on this hypothesis, saying that the polls underestimated Clinton rather than overestimated Obama. Other analysts cast doubt on this hypothesis, saying that the polls underestimated  rather than overestimated .
490 los+angeles Clinton may have also benefited from the primacy effect in the New Hampshire primary as she was listed ahead of Obama on every New Hampshire ballot. may have also benefited from the primacy effect in the   primary as she was listed ahead of  on every   ballot.
491 los+angeles The Joes sabotage the Scanner and as a result, Billy, Destro, Baroness, and Zartan all break free from Cobra Commander's control. The  sabotage the Scanner and as a result, , , , and  all break free from Cobra Commander's control.
492 los+angeles Storm Shadow is not so lucky and Cobra Commander is able to keep him control through repeated sessions in the Scanner. Storm Shadow is not so lucky and Cobra Commander is able to keep him control through repeated sessions in the Scanner.
493 los+angeles Strom shadow is able to resist for small periods of time and is able to warn Snake-Eyes when cobra Commander orders an assassination attempt on Hawk. shadow is able to resist for small periods of time and is able to warn Snake-Eyes when cobra Commander orders an assassination attempt on Hawk.
494 los+angeles Storm Shadow finally breaks free long enough to flee to Los Angeles, but despite the efforts of Snake-Eyes, Billy, and Kamakura, Cobra Commander uses a handheld version of the Scanner to rebrainwash Storm Shadow. Storm Shadow finally breaks free long enough to flee to  , but despite the efforts of Snake-Eyes, , and , Cobra Commander uses a handheld version of the Scanner to rebrainwash Storm Shadow.
495 los+angeles The onset of the Great Depression and the Long Beach earthquake of 1933 pushed the Breakers into bankruptcy. The onset of the Great Depression and the   earthquake of  pushed the Breakers into bankruptcy.
496 los+angeles The 1933 earthquake, which resulted in over 100 deaths, caused only minor damage to the Breakers, but the widespread destruction in Long Beach caused major damage to the city’s tourist trade. The  earthquake, which resulted in over  deaths, caused only minor damage to the Breakers, but the widespread destruction in   caused major damage to the city’s tourist trade.
497 los+angeles The hotel served as the headquarters for the Red Cross relief efforts following the earthquake. The hotel served as the headquarters for the   relief efforts following the earthquake.
498 los+angeles In August 1934, the "Los Angeles Times" reported that the hotel had sustained a significant operating loss in 1933 and was delinquent on its real estate and personal properties taxes for the past three years. In  ,  "  " reported that  hotel had sustained a significant operating loss in  and was delinquent on its real estate and personal properties taxes for    .
499 los+angeles The 40 story building was topped out in early 2009 but construction was suspended or greatly slowed, as the building was still not completed over two years later as of March, 2011. The  story building was topped out in   but construction was suspended or greatly slowed as the building was still not completed     as of  .
500 los+angeles The building lost an anchor tenant, a law firm that had a 58 million dollar, 10.5 year lease for 15 percent of the building (115,000 sq ft), in early 2009. The building lost an anchor tenant, a law firm that had a 58 million dollar,   lease for 15 percent of the building ( sq ft), in  .
501 los+angeles With the new name of Brickell World Plaza, the building has a scheduled opening date of August 2011. With the new name of   , the building has a scheduled opening date of  .
502 los+angeles The building developers, the Foram Group, have claimed that this slowed construction was strategic for the purpose of detail, and that after completion they will move their corporate offices into the building. The building developers, the  , have claimed that this slowed construction was strategic for the purpose of detail, and that after completion they will move their corporate offices into the building.
503 los+angeles However, the near halt in construction and the loss of a major tenant suggests that the delay was not strategic, but due to the 2008 economic crisis and the falling demand for office space due to the excessive construction in Miami at that time. However, the near halt in construction and the loss of a major tenant suggests that the delay was not strategic, but due to the  economic crisis and the falling demand for office space due to the excessive construction in  at that time.
504 los+angeles Early in 2011, 600 Brickell got a $130 million construction mortgage loan from Los Angeles based Canyon Capital Reality Advisors that will fund the rest of the construction. Early in ,  Brickell got a $130 million construction mortgage loan from   based     that will fund the rest of the construction.
505 los+angeles This was one of the largest loans issued in the city of Miami since the real estate crisis. This was  of the largest loans issued in the city of  since the real estate crisis.
506 los+angeles On December 14, 2007, the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (LADWP) announced that it would drain Silver Lake Reservoir and Elysian Reservoir due to bromate contamination. On    the        () announced that it would drain     Elysian  due to bromate contamination.
507 los+angeles At the Silver Lake and Elysian reservoirs a combination of bromide from well water, chlorine, and sunlight had formed bromate. At the   and  reservoirs a combination of bromide from well water, chlorine, and sunlight had formed bromate.
508 los+angeles The decontamination took 4 months, discharging over  of contaminated water. The decontamination took  , discharging over  of contaminated water.
509 los+angeles The popularity of forensic crime television shows supposedly gives rise to many misconceptions about the nature of forensic science and investigation procedures among jury members. The popularity of forensic crime television shows supposedly gives rise to many misconceptions about the nature of forensic science and investigation procedures among jury members.
510 los+angeles The CSI effect is hypothesized to affect verdicts in two main ways: first, that jurors expect more forensic evidence than is available or necessary, resulting in a higher rate of acquittal when such evidence is absent; and second, that jurors have greater confidence in forensic and particularly DNA evidence than is warranted, resulting in a higher rate of conviction when such evidence is present. The CSI effect is hypothesized to affect verdicts in  main ways: , that jurors expect more forensic evidence than is available or necessary, resulting in a higher rate of acquittal when such evidence is absent; and , that jurors have greater confidence in forensic and particularly DNA evidence than is warranted, resulting in a higher rate of conviction when such evidence is .
511 los+angeles While these and other effects may be caused by crime shows, the most commonly reported effect is that jurors are wrongly acquitting defendants despite overwhelming evidence of guilt. While these and other effects may be caused by crime shows, the most commonly reported effect is that jurors are wrongly acquitting defendants despite overwhelming evidence of guilt.
512 los+angeles In particular, prosecutors have reported feeling pressured to provide DNA evidence even when eyewitness testimony is available. In particular, prosecutors have reported feeling pressured to provide DNA evidence even when eyewitness testimony is available.
513 los+angeles In one highly publicized incident, Los Angeles District Attorney Steve Cooley blamed actor Robert Blake's acquittal on murder charges on the CSI effect. In  highly publicized incident,    Attorney   blamed actor  's acquittal on murder charges on the CSI effect.
514 los+angeles Cooley noted that the not guilty verdict came despite two witness accounts of Blake's guilt, and claimed that the jury members were "incredibly stupid". noted that the not guilty verdict came despite  witness accounts of 's guilt, and claimed that the jury members were "incredibly stupid".
515 los+angeles All of the cab-forwards were oil-burning locomotives, which meant there was little trouble involved putting the tender at what would normally be the front of the locomotive. All of the cab-forwards were oil-burning locomotives, which meant there was little trouble involved putting the tender at what would normally be the front of the locomotive.
516 los+angeles The oil and water tanks were pressurized so that both would flow normally even on uphill grades. The oil and water tanks were pressurized so that both would flow normally even on uphill grades.
517 los+angeles Visibility from the cab was superb, such that one crewman could easily survey both sides of the track. Visibility from the cab was superb, such that  crewman could easily survey both sides of the track.
518 los+angeles There were concerns about what would happen to the crew in the event of a collision, and at least one fatal accident occurred on the Modoc Line when a moving locomotive struck a flat car. There were concerns about what would happen to the crew in the event of a collision, and at least  fatal accident occurred on the   when a moving locomotive struck a flat car.
519 los+angeles Turning the normal locomotive arrangement around also placed the crew well ahead of the exhaust fumes, insulating them from that hazard. Turning the normal locomotive arrangement around also placed the crew well ahead of the exhaust fumes, insulating them from that hazard.
520 los+angeles One problematic aspect of the design, however, was the routing of the oil lines; because the firebox was located ahead of the driving wheels (instead of behind them, the usual practice), oil leaks could cause the wheels to slip. problematic aspect of the design, however, was the routing of the oil lines; because the firebox was located ahead of the driving wheels (instead of behind them, the usual practice), oil leaks could cause the wheels to slip.
521 los+angeles A nuisance under most conditions, it resulted in at least one fatal accident. A nuisance under most conditions, it resulted in at least  fatal accident.
522 los+angeles This occurred in 1941 when a cab-forward with leaking steam and oil lines entered the tunnel at Santa Susana Pass near Los Angeles. This occurred in  when a cab-forward with leaking steam and oil lines entered the tunnel at    near  .
523 los+angeles The tunnel was on a grade, and as the slow-moving train ascended the tunnel, oil on the rails caused the wheels to slip and spin. The tunnel was on a grade, and as the slow-moving train ascended the tunnel, oil on the rails caused the wheels to slip and spin.
524 los+angeles The train slipped backwards and a coupler knuckle broke, separating the air line, causing an emergency brake application and stalling the train in a tunnel that was rapidly filling with exhaust fumes and steam. The train slipped backwards and a coupler knuckle broke, separating the air line, causing an emergency brake application and stalling the train in a tunnel that was rapidly filling with exhaust fumes and steam.
525 los+angeles The oil dripping on the rails and ties then ignited beneath the engine cab, killing the crew. The oil dripping on the rails and ties then ignited beneath the engine cab, killing the crew.
526 los+angeles More people in California live in areas that do not meet federal clean air standards than in any other state. More people in  live in areas that do not meet federal clean air standards than in any other state.
527 los+angeles A report by the American Lung Association states that some areas in California are the most polluted in the United States, with air quality that is likely damaging the health of millions of people. A report by the    states that some areas in  are the most polluted in the  , with air quality that is likely damaging the health of millions of people.
528 los+angeles The report finds that Los Angeles, Bakersfield (CA), and Visalia-Porterville (CA) rank among the five U.S. cities most polluted with particulates and ozone. The report finds that  ,  (CA), and  (CA) rank among the   cities most polluted with particulates and ozone.
529 los+angeles Carson experiences a warm-summer  Mediterranean Climate  (Köppen climate classification "Csb"), similar to that of the Los Angeles Basin with noticeably cooler temperatures during the summer due to the close proximity of the Pacific Ocean (~6-8 miles). experiences a warm-     ( climate classification "Csb"), similar to that of the    with noticeably cooler temperatures during the  due to the close proximity of the   ( miles).
530 los+angeles Rainfall is very scarce during the summer in Carson but receives just enough rainfall throughout the year to avoid Köppen's BSh (semi-arid climate). Rainfall is very scarce during   in  but receives just enough rainfall throughout   to avoid 's BSh (semi-arid climate).
531 los+angeles Carson, like much of the Southern California coastal areas, is subject to a late spring/early summer weather phenomenon called "June Gloom." , like much of the   coastal areas, is subject to a late spring/early  weather phenomenon called " Gloom."
532 los+angeles This involves overcast or foggy skies in the morning which yield to sun by early afternoon. This involves overcast or foggy skies in the morning which yield to sun by early afternoon.
533 los+angeles The cathedral was heavily damaged during the 1994 Northridge earthquake and became the subject of a lengthy legal battle between the archdiocese, which wanted to demolish the building and build a new cathedral on the site, and preservationists, who wanted the building to remain standing due to its historical significance. The cathedral was heavily damaged during the   earthquake and became the subject of a lengthy legal battle between the archdiocese, which wanted to demolish the building and build a new cathedral on the site, and preservationists, who wanted the building to remain standing due to its historical significance.
534 los+angeles In 1996, the parties involved reached a compromise in which the archdiocese would purchase a nearby site on which to build a new cathedral, and in turn would turn over the St. Vibiana site to the City of Los Angeles. In , the parties involved reached a compromise in which the archdiocese would purchase a nearby site on which to build a new cathedral, and in turn would turn over the   site to the City of  .
535 los+angeles The Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels was dedicated in 2002 as the successor to St. Vibiana's Cathedral. The Cathedral of Our Lady of the  was dedicated in  as the successor to  's Cathedral.
536 los+angeles The Catholic hierarchy has been criticized for not acting more quickly and decisively to remove, defrock and report priests accused of sexual misconduct. The  hierarchy has been criticized for not acting more quickly and decisively to remove, defrock and report priests accused of sexual misconduct.
537 los+angeles In response to such criticism, contemporary bishops have asserted that the hierarchy was unaware until recent years of the danger in shuffling priests from one parish to another and in concealing the priests' problems from those they served. In response to such criticism, contemporary bishops have asserted that the hierarchy was unaware until   of the danger in shuffling priests from  parish to another and in concealing the priests' problems from those they served.
538 los+angeles For example, Cardinal Roger Mahony of the Archdiocese of Los Angeles, said: "We have said repeatedly that ... our understanding of this problem and the way it's dealt with today evolved, and that in those years ago, decades ago, people didn't realize how serious this was, and so, rather than pulling people out of ministry directly and fully, they were moved." For example Cardinal   of the Archdiocese of   said: "We have said repeatedly that ... our understanding of this problem and the way it's dealt with  evolved and that in those     people didn't realize how serious this was and so rather than pulling people out of ministry directly and fully they were moved."
539 los+angeles The Los Angeles area is also subject to the phenomenon typical of a microclimate. The   area is also subject to the phenomenon typical of a microclimate.
540 los+angeles As such, the temperatures can vary as much as 18 °F (10 °C) between inland areas and the coast, with a temperature gradient of over one degree per mile (1.6 km) from the coast inland. As such, the temperatures can vary as much as  F ( C) between inland areas and the coast, with a temperature gradient of over  degree per mile ( km) from the coast inland.
541 los+angeles California has also a weather phenomenon called "June Gloom" or "May Gray", which sometimes gives overcast or foggy skies in the morning at the coast, but usually gives sunny skies by noon, during late spring and early summer. has also a weather phenomenon called " Gloom" or " Gray", which sometimes gives overcast or foggy skies in the morning at the coast, but usually gives sunny skies by noon, during   and  .
542 los+angeles Cerritos also has a unique "semi-marine" climate pattern within Los Angeles County. also has a unique "semi-marine" climate pattern within   .
543 los+angeles The fog that typically covers the beach cities rarely reaches Cerritos, but the breeze that comes along the San Gabriel River from the Pacific Ocean has a significant cooling effect. The fog that typically covers the beach cities rarely reaches , but the breeze that comes along the    from the   has a significant cooling effect.
544 los+angeles As a result, Cerritos is rarely affected by the smog, Santa Ana winds, and smothering heat of the Los Angeles Basin. As a result,  is rarely affected by the smog,   winds, and smothering heat of the   .
545 los+angeles The period of April through November is warm to hot and dry with average high temperatures of  and lows of . The period of  through  is warm to hot and dry with average high temperatures of  and lows of .
546 los+angeles Due to the moderating effect of the ocean, temperatures are cooler than in more inland areas of Los Angeles, where temperatures can exceed . Due to the moderating effect of the ocean, temperatures are cooler than in more inland areas of  , where temperatures can exceed .
547 los+angeles Contemporary Weather Bureau reports stated that the  rain had been a small  part of a storm that was already coming but Hatfield's supporters disregarded this. reports stated that the  rain had been a small  part of a storm that was already coming but 's supporters disregarded this.
548 los+angeles He began to receive more job offers. He began to receive more job offers.
549 los+angeles He promised Los Angeles 18 inches (46 centimetres) of rain, apparently succeeded, and collected a fee of $1000. He promised Los Angeles  inches ( centimetres) of rain, apparently succeeded, and collected a fee of $1000.
550 los+angeles For this effort, Hatfield had built his tower on the grounds of the Esperanza Sanitarium in Altadena, near Rubio Canyon. For this effort,  had built his tower on the grounds of the   in , near  .
551 los+angeles A news station reported the results of tests on what they called chemtrails. A news station reported the results of tests on what they called chemtrails.
552 los+angeles "It seemed like some mornings it was just criss-crossing the whole sky. "It seemed like some mornings it was just criss-crossing the whole sky.
553 los+angeles It was just like a giant checkerboard," said Bill Nichols, who reportedly noticed the "unusual clouds" begin as normal contrails from a jet engine, but unlike normal contrails, he claims, do not fade away. It was just like a giant checkerboard," said  , who reportedly noticed the "unusual clouds" begin as normal contrails from a jet engine, but unlike normal contrails, he claims, do not fade away.
554 los+angeles He then noticed "it would drop to the ground in a haze", the material collecting on the ground and in water he had sitting in bowls. He then noticed "it would drop to the ground in a haze", the material collecting on the ground and in water he had sitting in bowls.
555 los+angeles KSLA News 12 sampled the water at a lab and initially reported a high level of barium, 6.8 parts per million, more than three times the toxic level set by the EPA. News  sampled the water at a lab and initially reported a high level of barium,  parts per , more than  times the toxic level set by the EPA.
556 los+angeles After contacting the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality, the news station was told that these levels are very unusual, but proving the source "is a whole 'nother matter". After contacting the     , the news station was told that these levels are very unusual, but proving the source "is a whole 'nother matter".
557 los+angeles KSLA discovered during their investigation that barium is a hallmark of other chemtrail testing. discovered during their investigation that barium is a hallmark of other chemtrail testing.
558 los+angeles However the KSLA reporter had misread the reading, which was actually 68 parts per "billion", well within expected ranges, and the station retracted the story. However the  reporter had misread the reading, which was actually  parts per "", well within expected ranges, and the station retracted the story.
559 los+angeles The phenomenon attracted the attention of a Los Angeles network affiliate, which aired a similar investigation called "Toxic Sky?" Following suit, Phoenix News Reporter Pat McReynolds at CBS KPHO interviewed Geoengineering investigators and concluded that chemtrails do not exist. The phenomenon attracted the attention of a   network affiliate, which aired a similar investigation called "Toxic Sky?"Following suit,   Reporter   at   interviewed  investigators and concluded that chemtrails do not exist.
560 los+angeles Experts on atmospheric phenomena deny the existence of chemtrails, asserting that the characteristics attributed to them are simply features of contrails responding differently in diverse conditions in terms of the sunlight, temperature, horizontal and vertical wind shear, and humidity levels present at the aircraft's altitude. Experts on atmospheric phenomena deny the existence of chemtrails, asserting that the characteristics attributed to them are simply features of contrails responding differently in diverse conditions in terms of the sunlight, temperature, horizontal and vertical wind shear, and humidity levels  at the aircraft's altitude.
561 los+angeles Experts explain that what appears as patterns such as grids formed by contrails result from increased air traffic traveling through the gridlike United States National Airspace System's north-south and east-west oriented flight lanes, and that it is difficult for observers to judge the differences in altitudes between these contrails from the ground. Experts explain that what appears as patterns such as grids formed by contrails result from increased air traffic traveling through the gridlike     's north-south and east-west oriented flight lanes, and that it is difficult for observers to judge the differences in altitudes between these contrails from the ground.
562 los+angeles The jointly published fact sheet produced by NASA, the EPA, the FAA, and NOAA in 2000 in response to alarms over chemtrails details the science of contrail formation, and outlines both the known and potential impacts contrails have on temperature and climate. The jointly published fact sheet produced by , the , the , and  in  in response to alarms over chemtrails details the science of contrail formation, and outlines both the known and potential impacts contrails have on temperature and climate.
563 los+angeles The USAF produced a fact sheet as well that described these contrail phenomena as observed and analyzed since at least 1953. The  produced a fact sheet as well that described these contrail phenomena as observed and analyzed since at least .
564 los+angeles It also rebutted chemtrail theories more directly by identifying the theories as a hoax and denying the existence of chemtrails. It also rebutted chemtrail theories more directly by identifying the theories as a hoax and denying the existence of chemtrails.
565 los+angeles The accident occurred ten hours into the regular service between Taipei and Los Angeles. The accident occurred   into the regular service between  and  .
566 los+angeles The Boeing 747SP-09 was 350 miles (550 km) northwest of San Francisco, cruising at an altitude of . The  747SP-09 was  miles ( km) northwest of  , cruising at an altitude of .
567 los+angeles The flight crew consisted of captain Min-Yuan Ho, first officer Ju Yu Chang, flight engineer Kuo-Win Pei, relief captain Chien-Yuan Liao, and relief flight engineer Shih Lung Suwere. The flight crew consisted of captain  ,  officer   , flight engineer  , relief captain Chien-an , and relief flight engineer   .
568 los+angeles The sequence began when the No. 4 starboard outermost engine stalled at a low thrust setting and flamed out. The sequence began when the No.  starboard outermost engine stalled at a low thrust setting and flamed out.
569 los+angeles That engine had failed twice during previous flights (both while cruising at FL 410 & 430, respectively). That engine had failed twice during previous flights (both while cruising at FL  & , respectively).
570 los+angeles In each of those cases, the engine was restarted, after descending to a lower altitude. In each of those cases, the engine was restarted, after descending to a lower altitude.
571 los+angeles The maintenance response to the logbook entries that noted the problems included engine inspection, fuel filter drainage and replacement, vane controller inspection and replacement, water drainage from Mach probes, insufficient modules, and other filter replacements. The maintenance response to the logbook entries that noted the problems included engine inspection, fuel filter drainage and replacement, vane controller inspection and replacement, water drainage from Mach probes, insufficient modules, and other filter replacements.
572 los+angeles None of those acts fixed the recurrent stalling and flameout problem of the No. 4 engine. None of those acts fixed the recurrent stalling and flameout problem of the No.  engine.
573 los+angeles Only after breaking through the bottom of the clouds at  could the captain orient himself and bring the plane under control, leveling out at . Only after breaking through the bottom of the clouds at  could the captain orient himself and bring the plane under control, leveling out at .
574 los+angeles They had descended  in under two and a half minutes. They had descended  in under  and a half .
575 los+angeles The flight crew were under the impression that all four engines had flamed out, but the National Transportation Safety Board believes only engine No. 4 had failed. The flight crew were under the impression that all  engines had flamed out, but the     believes only engine No.  had failed.
576 los+angeles After leveling out, it was found that the three remaining engines (1, 2 & 3 as numbered from left to right looking forward from the cockpit) were supplying normal thrust. After leveling out, it was found that the  remaining engines (,  &  as numbered from left to right looking forward from the cockpit) were supplying normal thrust.
577 los+angeles A restart attempt brought No. 4 back into use. A restart attempt brought No.  back into use.
578 los+angeles They began climbing and reported to air traffic control "condition normal now" and they were continuing on to Los Angeles. They began climbing and reported to air traffic control "condition normal " and they were continuing on to  .
579 los+angeles They then noticed that the inboard main landing gear were down and one of the plane's hydraulic systems was empty. They then noticed that the inboard main landing gear were down and  of the plane's hydraulic systems was empty.
580 los+angeles Because they didn't have sufficient fuel to reach Los Angeles with the drag added by the landing gear, they diverted to San Francisco. Because they didn't have sufficient fuel to reach   with the drag added by the landing gear, they diverted to  .
581 los+angeles Learning there were injured people on board, an emergency was declared and they flew straight in to the airport and landed without further incident. Learning there were injured people on board, an emergency was declared and they flew straight in to the airport and landed without further incident.
582 los+angeles Formation of the halo requires that the sun be very high in the sky, at an elevation of 58° or greater, and that a cirrus cloud or haze be present and contain plate-shaped ice crystals. Formation of the halo requires that the sun be very high in the sky, at an elevation of  or greater, and that a cirrus cloud or haze be  and contain plate-shaped ice crystals.
583 los+angeles The sun's altitude determines the visibility of the halo; it is impossible to see at locations north of 55°N or south of 55°S (although a lunar circumhorizon arc might be visible at other latitudes). The sun's altitude determines the visibility of the halo; it is impossible to see at locations north of N or south of S (although a lunar circumhorizon arc might be visible at other latitudes).
584 los+angeles At other latitudes the phenomenon is visible, for a greater or lesser time, around the summer solstice. At other latitudes the phenomenon is visible, for a greater or lesser time, around the  solstice.
585 los+angeles Slots of visibility for different latitudes and locations may be looked up [http://www.atoptics.co.uk/halo/chafreq.htm Slots of visibility for different latitudes and locations may be looked up [http://www.atoptics.co.uk/halo/chafreq.htm
586 los+angeles here]. here].
587 los+angeles For example, in London, England the sun is only high enough for 140 hours between mid-May and late July. For example, in ,  the sun is only high enough for   between mid-May and  .
588 los+angeles Contrast that with Los Angeles, with the sun higher than 58 degrees for 670 hours between late March and late September. Contrast that with  , with the sun higher than  degrees for   between   and  .
589 los+angeles In similar numbers, a Los Angeles Times review of U.S., British, and Pakistani newspapers and international wire services found that between 1,067 and 1,201 direct civilian deaths were reported by those news organizations during the five months from October 7, 2001 to February 28, 2002. In similar numbers a    review of     newspapers  international wire services found that between    direct civilian deaths were reported by those news organizations during        to   .
590 los+angeles This review excluded all civilian deaths in Afghanistan that did not get reported by U.S., British, or Pakistani news, excluded 497 deaths that did get reported in U.S., British, and Pakistani news but that were not specifically identified as civilian or military, and excluded 754 civilian deaths that were reported by the Taliban but not independently confirmed. This review excluded all civilian deaths in  that did not get reported by , , or  news, excluded  deaths that did get reported in , , and  news but that were not specifically identified as civilian or military, and excluded  civilian deaths that were reported by the  but not independently confirmed.
591 los+angeles Proponents for the CSA argue that the Clean Air Act sets unachievable goals, especially for ozone and nitrogen oxide pollution. Proponents for the  argue that the    sets unachievable goals, especially for ozone and nitrogen oxide pollution.
592 los+angeles Having a clearly defined cap will benefit both industry and the general population because the goals are visible to everyone and industry benefits from cost-certainty. Having a clearly defined cap will benefit both industry and the general population because the goals are visible to everyone and industry benefits from cost-certainty.
593 los+angeles For example, the claim that simply enforcing the Clean Air Act will result in less pollution than the Clear Skies Act assumes that strict measures will be taken in heavily polluting areas, such as Los Angeles and other municipalities. For example, the claim that simply enforcing the    will result in less pollution than the    assumes that strict measures will be taken in heavily polluting areas, such as   and other municipalities.
594 los+angeles Measures such as transportation control were taken in the 1970s but were withdrawn amid widespread public protest. Measures such as transportation control were taken in   but were withdrawn amid widespread public protest.
595 los+angeles Proponents of reform argue that a more likely result of following the current Clean Air Act is the continued 'muddling along' approach to environmental legislation, with most important decisions made in courts on a case by case basis after many years of litigation. Proponents of reform argue that a more likely result of following the     is the continued 'muddling along' approach to environmental legislation, with most important decisions made in courts on a case by case basis after many  of litigation.
596 los+angeles "Climate Ground Zero (CGZ)", founded in February 2009, is a non-violent civil disobedience campaign against mountaintop removal mining based in the southern coalfields of West Virginia. "Climate Ground  (CGZ)", founded in  , is a non-violent civil disobedience campaign against mountaintop removal mining based in the southern coalfields of  .
597 los+angeles According to their website, Climate Ground Zero believes “that the irrevocable destruction of the mountains of Appalachia and its accompanying toll on the air, water, and lives of Appalachians necessitates continued and direct action". According to their website, Climate Ground  believes “that the irrevocable destruction of the mountains of  and its accompanying toll on the air, water, and lives of ns necessitates continued and direct action".
598 los+angeles The organization seeks to end mountaintop removal mining by drawing attention to the issue through protests involving trespass on the property of mining companies. The organization seeks to end mountaintop removal mining by drawing attention to the issue through protests involving trespass on the property of mining companies.
599 los+angeles By locking down to machinery on mine sites, occupying trees in the blast zone, or blockading haul roads to mine sites, protesters associated with Climate Ground Zero directly interfere with mining practices. By locking down to machinery on mine sites, occupying trees in the blast zone, or blockading haul roads to mine sites, protesters associated with Climate Ground  directly interfere with mining practices.
600 los+angeles Other protests draw attention to the alleged negligence of regulatory agencies such as the West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection (WVDEP) or the federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) by occupying the offices of these governmental organizations. Other protests draw attention to the alleged negligence  regulatory agencies such as the       (WVDEP) or the federal    (EPA) by occupying the fices  these governmental organizations.
601 los+angeles Climate Ground Zero has been referenced in the "New York Times", "Los Angeles Times", "Washington Post", "Democracy Now", and the "Associated Press". Climate Ground  has been referenced in the "  Times", "  Times", " ", " ", and the "Associated Press".
602 los+angeles The question of whether CEQA requires lead agencies to evaluate climate change impacts on projects was recently addressed in "Ballona Wetlands Land Trust (Ballona) v. City of Los Angeles" (December 2011, 201 Cal.App.4th The question  whether  requires lead agencies to evaluate climate change impacts on projects was  addressed in "Ballona Wetlands Land Trust (Ballona)     " ( ,  Cal.Appth
603 los+angeles 455). ).
604 los+angeles Ballona alleged that the City failed to address impacts of sea level rise on the proposed project. Ballona alleged that the City failed to address impacts of sea level rise on the proposed project.
605 los+angeles The court upheld the City’s EIR, stating that while an EIR must analyze environmental effects that may result from a project, it is not required to examine the effects of the environment on the project. The court upheld the City’s EIR, stating that while an EIR must analyze environmental effects that may result from a project, it is not required to examine the effects of the environment on the project.
606 los+angeles In its opinion, the Court criticized the CEQA Guidelines that suggest lead agencies should consider the impact of the environment on the project, such as Section 15065(a)(4), which requires lead agencies to make a finding of significance for projects that cause “substantial adverse effects on humans beings, either directly or indirect.” In its opinion, the Court criticized the  Guidelines that suggest lead agencies should consider the impact of the environment on the project, such as Section (a)(), which requires lead agencies to make a finding of significance for projects that cause “substantial adverse effects on humans beings, either directly or indirect.”
