The cyclone produced winds of 60 mph (95 km/h) on Grand Bahama.
The duration of hurricane force winds ranged from 1–3 hours in the Abaco Islands, and five sponge fishing vessels were lost due to the hurricane.
The cyclone caused 14 deaths in the islands.
In Fort Lauderdale, winds unroofed several homes, and canals overflowed.
In South Florida, the hurricane dismantled communication lines, and "telegraph companies relayed" messages via Jacksonville and Atlanta.
High waves flooded Miami Beach.
Ten feet (3.5 m) of the Miami Beach causeway was eroded, and police halted traffic between Miami Beach and the mainland.
The death toll in Florida was low because of well executed warnings and advisories.
Winds shattered numerous plate glass windows in Miami's business district, while signs, roofing materials, and vegetation littered streets.
50 homes lost their roofs in Hollywood and Dania, and the oceanfront boardwalk was destroyed.
Precipitation damaged equipment at the Hollywood Beach Hotel, where many windows were broken.
Construction standards were improved in the aftermath of the 1928 Okeechobee Hurricane, reducing damages in subsequent storms.
35 people were treated for injuries at local hospitals.
Southeastern Miami was flooded by three feet (915 mm) of water.
The hurricane produced light rainfall in Miami that peaked at 4.04 inches (102.5 mm).
Five deaths were reported in Florida.
Total damages in Florida reached $5,500,000 in the Miami–Fort Lauderdale area.

This early morning tornado was a double tornado event.
One tornado moved in from the Atlanta highway, while the other moved in from the Dawsonville highway.
The two merged on Grove Street and destroyed everything in sight, causing wreckage pileups of up to 10 feet in some places.
The worst tornado-caused death toll in a single building in U.S. history was at the Cooper Pants Factory.
The multiple story building, filled with young workers, collapsed and caught fire, killing 70 people.
At the Pacolet Mill, 550 workers averted a tragedy by moving to the northeast side of the building.
Many people sought refuge in Newman's department store; however, it collapsed, killing 20 people.

A strong upper level trough led to the formation of a low pressure area in the eastern Gulf of Mexico, on August 17.
This low became a tropical depression on August 18.
After drifting to the east-southeast, a pressure of a  occurred on August 19.
The storm rapidly moved to the northeast, reaching tropical storm strength on the way.
After passing over Florida, Dottie moved to the north, reaching a peak of 50 mph (85 km/h) winds.
Conditions appeared favorable, and a hurricane watch was issued.
However, upper-level winds ripped the storm apart on August 20, and it was barely a tropical storm at its South Carolina landfall on August 21.
It weakened to a tropical depression, and advisories were stopped, later on August 21.
A tide in Atlanta Beach, North Carolina reached  above normal.
The remnant low of the system followed its track, moving southwestward into Florida, bringing more rain to the area.
A total of 10.68 in (271.3 mm) of rain fell at Fort Lauderdale.
Dottie lost its identity after re-entering the Gulf of Mexico on August 25.
Damage was minor, but four deaths occurred due to a fishing boat sinking over the Bahamas.

This outbreak was also part of a larger storm system that was responsible for producing severe weather across a much wider area of the eastern U.S.  On the previous day, weaker tornadoes had been reported in scattered locations from Louisiana to Alabama, and a thunderstorm-caused flash flood was suspected to be the cause of a train derailment in north Florida.
The northern part of the same system first spawned additional severe (non-tornadic) thunderstorms, which caused 4 additional deaths in Maryland and Pennsylvania, before then dropping snow, sleet and ice across a wide area of the northeast.
The thunderstorms which produced the tornado outbreak were also responsible (according to the same data) for numerous reports of large hail and wind damage in Appalachian southwest North Carolina, and numerous larger cities (Atlanta, GA, Greenville, SC, Columbia, SC, Charlotte, North Carolina, Fayetteville, NC, Raleigh, North Carolina, Suffolk, VA, Norfolk, VA) at the periphery of the outbreak, with wind damage from thunderstorms reported as far north as Delaware.

Temperatures accompanying the storm were unseasonably cold for late winter so close to spring: average daily maximum temperatures, in mid-March, are around  in Boston,  in Philadelphia, and  in Atlanta.
During the 1993 storm, these places were all below freezing, and parts of New England saw daily maximum temperatures as low as .
Record low temperatures for March were recorded in much of the southern U.S.  Birmingham recorded a record low of  during the storm.

This storm complex was massive, affecting at least 26 U.S. states and much of eastern Canada.
Bringing cold air along with heavy precipitation and hurricane force winds, it caused a blizzard over much of the area it affected, including thundersnow from Texas to Pennsylvania and widespread whiteout conditions.
Snow fell as far south and east as Jacksonville, Florida, and areas of the Florida Panhandle got several inches of snow, making it the most significant winter storm to affect the state since 1899.
Ice pellets (sleet) mixed in with the rain as temperatures in Tampa, in west-central Florida, hovered not far above freezing after the front passed.
The storm severely impacted both ground and air travel.
Airports were closed all along the Eastern seaboard, and flights were cancelled or, if already underway, diverted, stranding many passengers.
Every airport from Halifax, Nova Scotia to Atlanta, Georgia was closed for some time because of the storm.
Highway travel was closed or restricted all across the affected region, even in states generally well-prepared for snow events.

There was some sense of imminent threat in Grand Forks, but the cities could not prepare for such an enormous flood.
The National Weather Service (NWS) had a long-standing forecast for the river to crest at 49 feet (14.9 m), which was the river's highest level during the 1979 flood.
The cities had been able to get their dikes to this level, but the river continued to rise past it, to the astonishment of the NWS (which didn't upgrade its forecast until April 16, the day the river actually reached 49 feet).
The dikes in the low-lying Lincoln Drive neighborhood of Grand Forks were the first to break, doing so early on April 18.
Other dikes over Grand Forks and East Grand Forks area failed that day and the next, flooding thousands of homes.
During this time, Grand Forks mayor Pat Owens ordered the evacuation of over 50,000 people, which up to that time, had been the largest evacuation in the United States since the evacuation of residents in Atlanta, Georgia during the Civil War.

The "Dunwoody tornado" was a significant tornado that tore across the northern suburbs of metro Atlanta on April 9, 1998.
It struck parts of the four most populous counties in Georgia: Cobb, Fulton, DeKalb, and Gwinnett.
The most severe damage was in the Dunwoody area, where the storm reached a high-end F2 on the Fujita scale, making it one of the strongest and most damaging recorded to have hit that area.

The funnel passed directly over Atlanta's other major edge city at Perimeter Center, and after sparing the many high-rises there, the most severe part of the tornado began through Dunwoody.
Its intensity increased to high-end F2 strength with winds up to , and its width to nearly a half mile (800m), damaging thousands of homes and downing tens of thousands of native pine and hardwood forest trees.
Hundreds of homes had major damage, a few dozen were destroyed (or nearly so) and were condemned, and had to be completely rebuilt.
Significant damage also occurred to the campus of Georgia Perimeter College.

Like the 2008 Atlanta tornado that struck downtown Atlanta, this storm caused an estimated $250 million in damage.
This was far more than the also well-remembered "governor's tornado" in March 1975.

The outbreak began as the remnants of Cindy weakened over Louisiana.
As the storm weakened, strong thunderstorms began to develop along the edges of the system in Alabama.
The first tornado touched down near Semmes, Alabama at 3:00 A.M. (CST).
The tornado caused roof damage to several structures as well as knocking down several trees.
Over the next ten hours, several "F0" and two "F1" tornadoes touched down in Alabama and Florida.
Later on July 6, the remnants of Cindy were moving over Alabama and the activity shifted into Georgia.
At 8:45 PM (EST), a large tornado touched down near the Atlanta Motor Speedway causing severe damage to the structures in the complex.
The tornado then moved into an airfield where several planes and helicopters were damaged.
Numerous homes were damaged or destroyed by the tornado as well.
The tornado was rated "F2" by the NWS.
The activity slowed for a short while before picking back up in early afternoon hours on July 7 as the remnants of Cindy moved through Georgia.
At 2:10PM (EST) an "F2" tornado touched down about seven miles south of Taylorsville, North Carolina where three buildings were damaged a mobile home was destroyed.
About an hour later, another "F2" tornado touched down in North Carolina.
It touched down about four miles north-northeast of Harmony.
The tornado damaged several buildings before moving into Yadkin County where an additional 13 buildings were damaged as well as severe crop damage to the tobacco and corn farms.
By the nighttime hours, the activity was shifting into Virginia.
Before the remnants of Cindy moved out into the Atlantic Ocean, seven "F1" tornadoes touched down in Virginia.
The outbreak ended early on July 8 as Cindy began to move out over the Atlantic.

The "2008 Atlanta tornado outbreak" was a tornado outbreak that affected the Southeastern United States on March 14–15, 2008.

A tornado caused widespread damage across downtown Atlanta, including to the CNN Center and to the Georgia Dome, where the 2008 SEC Men's Basketball Tournament was postponed.
Other buildings that were damaged include the Georgia World Congress Center, Philips Arena (during an Atlanta Hawks game), and the Omni Hotel, which was evacuated after many windows were blown out.
The Westin Peachtree Plaza suffered major window damage.
The image of the building with all the windows blown out became famous and, for a time, was the symbol of the tornado.
Centennial Olympic Park, the SunTrust Tower and historic Oakland Cemetery were also damaged.
One man was killed near downtown Atlanta and 30 others were injured.
Two other deaths took place on March 15 in the northern Atlanta suburbs from the second, larger round of severe weather and tornadoes.
In total, 45 tornadoes were confirmed over the 24 hour period from eastern Alabama to the Carolina coast, with most of the activity concentrated in the Metropolitan Atlanta area, the Central Savannah River Area and the Midlands of South Carolina.

In their 9:00 pm EDT outlook, the Storm Prediction Center issued a slight risk of severe weather across portions of the southern United States from Oklahoma to Georgia, with a 2% risk area for tornadoes for the Atlanta area.
A tornado warning was issued for Atlanta at 9:26 pm when the thunderstorm that caused the tornado was  to the northwest of the downtown area, although no watches were in effect for the area due to the low probability and unusual isolated nature.
The tornado drifted southward as it moved eastward, whereas most tornadic storms have a strong northward component along (or ahead of) a cold front.
It also was unusual because it was not associated with such a squall line at all, but was an independent supercell drifting well ahead of the main storm system.

The Ritz Carlton, Westin Peachtree Plaza, Georgia-Pacific Building, SunTrust Tower (where more than 60 people had to be relocated out of their offices), Equitable Building, and Georgia State University also had windows blown out (300 at Equitable alone), as did The Tabernacle (a former church with stained glass that is now a concert venue).
The windows of the Westin continued to fall for days after the tornado, forcing police to keep several city blocks and MARTA's Peachtree Center station closed to pedestrians.
The Georgia World Congress Center also sustained flooding while hosting a JROTC event and the Hinman Dental Meeting; Fox Sports Net took footage of a staircase in the new section of the complex that looked like a fountain with water cascading down it.
The annual Atlanta Home Show and all other events were cancelled for the weekend in the GWCC complex, as was the Atlanta St. Patrick's Day Parade scheduled for the next day.
WRAS FM at Georgia State University was off the air for two days, though it was not stated whether its studio or tower sustained damage, or if this were due to security or safety concerns, or power outages.
The historic Rialto Theatre at GSU also sustained roof damage, which in turn caused water damage inside.

Hundreds of people were rescued by boat from their homes, and at least ten people died, mostly in their cars by driving where water crossed the road, which motorists were repeatedly warned against on local radio and TV.
The American Red Cross started emergency shelters in each county affected by the floods.
Most Atlanta area school districts were closed September 21, due to floodwaters and the difficulty for school buses to get around the hundreds of closed roads.

On Monday, September 21, Sweetwater Creek rose to its highest level ever.
On September 22, The United States Geological Survey measured the greatest flow ever recorded on Sweetwater Creek, at .
The flooding from the creek was met with water from the swollen Chattahoochee river, which blocked Interstate 20 west of Atlanta for two days.
Many homes and businesses in the area were completely submerged.

Located along the Chattahoochee River in west Atlanta, the R.M. Clayton sewage treatment plant, the largest in the Southeastern U.S., was swamped with four feet of water as the river rose by twelve additional feet.
Millions of gallons of untreated sewage were released into the rising waters.
Other plants in Cobb and Gwinnett counties experienced similar spills.
Also located near the Chattahoochee, a Kellogg Company food plant was flooded, resulting in the closure of the plant and a subsequent national shortage of waffles.

The "2009 Southeastern United States floods" were a group of floods that affected several counties throughout northern Georgia,  Tennessee, Alabama, Mississippi and Arkansas.
Some of the worst flooding took place most around the Atlanta metropolitan area.
Continuous rain, spawned by moisture pulled from the Gulf of Mexico, fell faster than the local watersheds could drain the runoff.

Rain began falling on the Atlanta area on September 15, 2009, with the National Weather Service reporting only 0.04 inches that day at the Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport.
Additional rain fell throughout the week, with only a trace amount recorded for September 18.
However, a large rain event began to inundate the area on September 19.
The official NWS monitoring station at the Atlanta airport recorded  of rainfall from daybreak to 8pm (more than doubling the previous record for rainfall on that date), while outlying monitoring stations recorded  of rainfall in a 13-hour period.
Flooding began in one neighborhood that day, with the remainder of the area placed under a flash flood watch for the rest of the weekend.

While in conversion to the new airframe, the unit continued its mission of aerial weather reconnaissance and added a new weather-related mission type in 2003, using the WC-130Js to drop buoys ahead of impending tropical storms.
In 2004, the unit started training to support tactical airlift missions in addition to its weather mission.
The landfall of Hurricane Katrina on 29 August 2005 caused devastating damage to Keesler Air Force Base.
The equipment and personnel of the squadron were flying out of Dobbins Air Reserve Base near Atlanta, Georgia when the hurricane struck and never missed a tasked mission.

Other concerns include harvests of oysters in Apalachicola Bay, which require a large enough flow of fresh water to prevent excessive saltwater intrusion from the Gulf.
The cost of dredging silt, much of it from uncontrolled growth across metro Atlanta's fine red clay soil, has also been called wasteful to float so little ship traffic.

The largest, the Riverdale LNG plant in Riverdale, Georgia, has storage capacity of 31,080,000 gallons or 2,560,000 million cubic feet (Mcf) of natural gas in its two tanks.
Located south of Atlanta, the plant is supplied by two interstate pipelines for supply.
It is connected to the Atlanta Gas Light beltline pipeline system for distribution of gas to the Atlanta market.
The plant is able to deliver 400,000 Mcf/day of gas during peak send-out.

Atlanta Gas Light, is the largest natural gas distributor in the Southeast, and is the AGL in AGL Resources.
It was founded in 1856 and is also headquartered in Atlanta.
It distributes to more than 1.6 million residential, commercial, and industrial customers in 243 communities throughout the state of Georgia.

The Cherokee LNG plant, located north of Atlanta in Ball Ground, Georgia, has storage capacity of 25,242,957 gallons or 2,020,237 Mcf equivalent of natural gas in a single tank.
The  site was designed to accommodate a second tank of equal capacity if warranted.
This plant receives supply from three pipelines and can deliver an equivalent of 400,000 Mcf/day of peak send-out to AGL's Atlanta market.

Although Adam4Adam has members of all ethnic groups, the percentage of non-White men represented in member profiles is higher than the percentage of non-White people in the United States population, though the degree to which this is true varies by city/region.
For instance, research into demographic representation in Atlanta,  San Francisco,  and New York City  profiles evidences a trend of higher representations of men of color among younger age cohorts, with decreasing diversity in profiles as age increase.
This is also true of Adam4Adam membership in the United Kingdom.

The course plans were drawn by the McLaughlin Whitewater Design Group, architects of the Ocoee Whitewater Center, which served as the canoe slalom venue for the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta.
The Ocoee facility is the only Olympic whitewater venue built in a riverbed, using natural boulders to direct the water flow, and McLaughlin used a similar design at McHenry -- with a channel shaped like a natural streambed and lined with natural boulders blasted from the mountaintop.
The purpose was both aesthetic and practical.
Irregular surfaces dampen the water surges that can occur in geometrically regular artificial channels.

Immigrants from Africa typically settle in heavily urban areas upon arrival into the U.S. Areas such as Washington, D.C., New York, Columbus, Ohio, Atlanta and Minneapolis have heavy concentrations of African immigrant populations.
Often there are clusters of nationalities within these cities.
The longer African immigrants live in the United States, the more likely they are to live in suburban areas.

After the war, northern parts of Appalachia experienced an economic boom, while economies in the southern parts of the region stagnated, especially as Southern Democrats regained control of their respective state legislatures at the end of Reconstruction.
Pittsburgh and its surrounding areas in western Pennsylvania grew into one of the nation's major industrial centers, especially regarding iron and steel production.
By 1900, the Chattanooga area and north Georgia and northern Alabama had experienced similar changes due to manufacturing booms in Atlanta and Birmingham at the edge of the Appalachian region.
Railroad construction between the 1880s and early 20th century gave the greater nation access to the vast coalfields in central Appalachia, making the economy in that part of the region practically synonymous with coal mining.
As the nationwide demand for timber skyrocketed, lumber firms turned to the virgin forests of southern Appalachia, using sawmill and logging railroad innovations to reach remote timber stands.
The Tri-Cities area of Tennessee and Virginia and the Kanawha Valley of West Virginia became major petrochemical production centers.

As the bulk of the activity exited Alabama, the severe weather reached the Atlanta metropolitan area late during the evening.
Two tornadoes both rated F2 touched down in the northern suburbs of Atlanta.
One of the tornadoes killed one person in DeKalb County.
Activity persisted through the early hours of April 9 where two more killer tornadoes touched down west of Savannah.
An F3 tornado near Blitchton in Bryan County killed two people and injured 15 others while damaging or destroying nearly 90 homes.
An F2 tornado further south in Long and Liberty Counties killed 4 including 3 mobile home occupants in Rye Patch and one soldier at Fort Stewart Army Base.

Conditions changed on April 7 in the South as the system moved eastward, with the cold front entering a more conducive environment.
The increased wind shear, combined with the high heat and humidity, allowed tornadoes to begin forming in the late morning, continuing throughout the afternoon, evening, and even into the overnight hours.
By the end of the day, a total of 48 tornadoes had been reported, several of which caused significant damage and loss of life.
The most violent tornadoes hit in Middle Tennessee, where 12 people were killed.
In addition to the tornadoes, there were many reports of hail as large as baseballs, powerful microbursts and straight-line winds, as well as local flooding.
Extensive damage was also reported in the northern suburbs of Atlanta, Georgia as the storms reached that area overnight into the early morning of April 8.

Large metropolitan areas have been the destination of most resettlements, with 72% of all resettlements between 1983 and 2004 going to 30 locations.
The historical gateways for resettled refugees have been California (specifically Los Angeles, Orange County, San Jose, and Sacramento), the Mid-Atlantic region (New York in particular), the Midwest (specifically Chicago and Minneapolis-St.
Paul) and Providence, Rhode Island.
In the last decades of the twentieth century, Washington, D.C.; Seattle, Washington; Portland, Oregon; and Atlanta, Georgia were recognized as new gateways for resettled refugees.
Particular cities are also identified with some national groups:  metropolitan Los Angeles received almost half of the resettled refugees from Iran, 20% of Iraqi refugees went to Detroit, and nearly one-third of refugees from the former Soviet Union were resettled in New York.
These ethnic enclaves partially result from attempts by the agencies organizing resettlement to place newly arrived refugees with family members already in the U.S. and in locations where government agencies and charities are known to have staff that speak the pertinent language.
Ethnic grouping also results as refugees and migrants seek out the comfort of familiar languages, food and customs.

During the 2000s, Atlanta underwent a profound transformation demographically, physically, and culturally.
Suburbanization, rising prices, a booming economy, and new migrants decreased the city’s black percentage from a high of 67% in 1990 to 54% in 2010.
From 2000 to 2010, Atlanta gained 22,763 white residents, 5,142 Asian residents, and 3,095 Hispanic residents, while the city’s black population decreased by 31,678.
Much of the city’s demographic change during the decade was driven by young, college-educated professionals: from 2000 to 2009, the three-mile radius surrounding Downtown Atlanta gained 9,722 residents aged 25 to 34 holding at least a four-year degree, an increase of 61%.
Between the mid-1990s and 2010, stimulated by funding from the HOPE VI program, Atlanta demolished nearly all of its public housing, a total of 17,000 units and about 10% of all housing units in the city.
In 2005, the $2.8 billion BeltLine project was adopted, with the stated goals of converting a disused 22-mile freight railroad loop that surrounds the central city into an art-filled multi-use trail and increasing the city’s park space by 40%.
Lastly, Atlanta’s cultural offerings expanded during the 2000s: the High Museum of Art doubled in size; the Alliance Theatre won a Tony Award; and numerous art galleries were established on the once-industrial Westside.

Atlanta's high elevation distinguishes it from most other southern and eastern cities, and contributes to a more temperate climate than is found in cities at similar latitudes.
Under the Köppen classification, it has a humid subtropical climate ("Cfa"), with very warm and humid summers and cool winters.
The warm, maritime air can bring spring-like highs while strong Arctic air masses can push lows into the teens (≤ −7 °C).
High temperatures in July average  but occasionally approach .
Temperatures at or above  occur more than 40 days per year.
January averages , with temperatures in the suburbs slightly cooler.
Overnight freezing can be expected over 45 days, but high temperatures that do not climb above the freezing mark are rare.
Extremes range from  in February 1899 to  in June 2012.

Typical of the southeastern U.S., Atlanta receives abundant rainfall that is relatively evenly distributed throughout the year, though spring and early fall are markedly drier.
Average annual rainfall is .
Annual snowfall averages  annually.
The heaviest single storm, known as the “Storm of the Century,” brought around  of snow in March 1993.
However, ice storms usually cause more nuisance than snowfall does, the most severe of such storms occurring on January 7, 1973 and January 9, 2011.
Tornados are rare in the city itself, though twisters such as the March 14, 2008 EF2 tornado damaged prominent structures in downtown Atlanta.

The 2010 United States Census reported that Atlanta had a population of 420,003.
The population density was 3,154 per square mile (1232/km2).
The racial makeup and population of Atlanta was 54.0% black or African American, 38.4% white, 3.1% Asian and 0.2% Native American.
Those from some other race made up 2.2% of the city’s population, while those from two or more races made up 2.0%.
Hispanics of any race made up 5.2% of the city’s population.
The median income for a household in the city was $45,171.
The per capita income for the city was $ 35,453.
22.6% percent of the population was living below the poverty line.
However, compared to the rest of the country, Atlanta's cost of living is 6.00% Lower than the U.S. average.
Atlanta has one of the highest LGBT populations per capita, ranking third among major American cities, behind San Francisco and slightly behind Seattle, with 12.8% of the city’s total population recognizing themselves as gay, lesbian, or bisexual.

Atlanta has recently undergone a drastic demographic increase in its white population.
Between 2000 and 2010, the proportion of whites in the city's population grew faster than that of any other U.S. city.
In that decade, Atlanta's white population grew from 31% to 38% of the city’s population, an absolute increase of 22,753 people, more than triple the increase that occurred between 1990 and 2000.

Out of the total population five years and older, 83.3% spoke only English at home, while 8.8% spoke Spanish, 3.9% another Indo-European language and 2.8% an Asian language.
Atlanta’s dialect has traditionally been a variation of Southern American English.
The Chattahoochee River long formed a border between the Coastal Southern and Southern Appalachian dialects.
However, by 2003, ‘‘Atlanta’’ magazine concluded that Atlanta had become significantly "de-Southernized," with a Southern accent considered a handicap in some circumstances.
In general, Southern accents are less prevalent among residents of the city and inner suburbs and among younger people, while they are more common in the outer suburbs and among older people; this pattern coexists alongside Southern variations of African American Vernacular English.

Largely due to a state-wide tax incentive enacted in 2005, the Georgia Entertainment Industry Investment Act, which awards qualified productions a transferable income tax credit of 20% of all in-state costs for film and television investments of $500,000 or more, Atlanta has become a center for film and television production.
Film and television production facilities in Atlanta include Turner Studios, Tyler Perry Studios, Williams Street Productions, and the EUE/Screen Gems soundstages.
Film and television production injected $1 billion into Georgia’s economy in 2010, with Atlanta garnering most of the projects.
Atlanta has gained recognition as a center of production of horror and zombie-related productions, with ‘‘Atlanta’’ magazine dubbing the city the "Zombie Capital of the World".
Compared to its peer cities, Atlanta’s economy has been disproportionately affected by the 2008 financial crisis and the subsequent recession.
The city’s economic problems are displayed in its elevated unemployment rate, declining real income levels, and depressed housing market.
From 2010-2011, Atlanta saw a 0.9% contraction in employment and a meager 0.4% rise in income.
As of 2012, the unemployment rate in Atlanta was over 9%, higher the national average of 8.2%.
These dismal statistics have garnered Atlanta recognition as one of the world’s worst economic performers, with the city’s economy earning a ranking of 189 among 200 global cities, down from a ranking of 89 during the 1990s, when the city realized 1.6% income growth and 2.6% employment growth.
However, even when the 2008-2009 period is excluded, the 2001-2007 period is still one of the worst on record for Atlanta: the city never recovered the jobs it lost during the Early 2000s recession, and per capita income declined nearly 5% from 2000 to 2006, the largest decline among major U.S. cities.
Thus, Atlanta’s current economic crisis was only worsened, and not caused, by the Recession.
Adding to the city’s employment and income woes is the spectacular collapse of its housing market.
Atlanta home prices fell by 2.1% in January 2012, reaching levels not seen since 1996, a decline that measured among the worst in the country.
Compared with a year earlier, the average home price in Atlanta fell 17.3% in February 2012, the largest annual drop in the history of the index for any city.
Atlanta home values average $85,000 as of January 2012, second-worst among major metropolitan areas, coming in just behind Detroit.
This unprecedented collapse in home prices has led some economists to deem Atlanta the worst housing market in the country.

The city’s lush tree canopy, which filters out pollutants and cools sidewalks and buildings, has increasingly been under assault from man and nature due to heavy rains, drought, aged forests, new pests, and urban construction.
A 2001 study found that Atlanta’s heavy tree cover declined from 48% in 1974 to 38% in 1996.
However, the problem is being addressed by community organizations and city government: Trees Atlanta, a non-profit organization founded in 1985, has planted and distributed over 75,000 shade trees in the city, while Atlanta’s government has awarded $130,000 in grants to neighborhood groups to plant trees.

"Atlanta Gas Light Company" ("AGLC"), commonly still known as "Atlanta Gas Light" ("AGL"), is the largest natural gas wholesaler in the Southeast U.S., and is the "AGL" in parent company AGL Resources.
It was founded in 1856 and is headquartered in Atlanta, as is AGL Resources.
It provides distribution to more than 1.6 million residential, commercial, and industrial customers in 243 communities throughout the state of Georgia.

The Atlanta Sports Council, a division of the Metro Atlanta Chamber, facilitates the growth and development of sports in metro Atlanta by serving as an event recruiter.
The organization plays an important role in improving the quality of life for residents in the region, works to drive economic growth and visibility, and acts as an advocate for the area teams and annual sporting events.

Metro Atlanta primarily uses natural gas for central heating and water heaters, with the major exception of heat pumps in apartments built during and since the 1980s.
This is because winters are mild, and large apartment buildings usually require little energy to heat.
Backup heat (also used during defrosting) is usually supplied by electric resistance heating, though some homes have hybrid heating units which use gas backup when it is cold.
Exurban homes may also use all-electric instead of gas, if gas mains have not been extended to an area.

Atlanta Gas Light is the natural gas utility for the region, and has been so for over a century and a half, since it installed gas lamps in Atlanta in 1856.
It operated as a regulated monopoly until November 1998, the after the state legislature voted in early 1997 to deregulate natural gas marketing, and make customers choose among nearly 20 different marketers still selling the same AGL-wholesaled gas.
Most of the gas comes via pipeline from Louisiana.

The low-density residential subdivision development that dominates the metro Atlanta suburbs has historically not been required to replace lost tree inventory.
Because of larger lot sizes, and natural-looking architecture such as California contemporary, older neighborhoods typically have many mature forest trees, except in cases where they have been destroyed by homeowners.
Increasing density allowed by zoning since the 1980s has meant fewer and fewer trees left, and by the 2000s it became common for developers to completely clear-cut dozens of acres of forest and bulldoze all hills flat to build generic tract housing, often with tightly packed homes nearly touching each other and up against the street.
However, over the past decade some area cities and counties have revised their tree ordinances to require tree recompense to be equal to or greater than the pre-development tree density, trying to ensure a future tree canopy.
Rather than leaving trees on each home lot as before, this typically involves a set-aside of green space in each development, with most other areas still clear-cut.
Even when some trees are replaced, it is with a single type of trees planted the same distance from each other, rather than different trees at random placement and age as in the native forest.

White Americans made up 55.4% of metro Atlanta's population, a relative decrease from 63.0% ten years earlier, but still an absolute increase of over 330,000 people.
Non-Hispanic whites dropped from 59.5% to 50.7% of the metro's population, increasing by about 224,000 people.

Hispanic Americans are the fastest growing ethnic group.
At 10.4% of the metro's population in 2010, versus only 6.5% in 2000, the metro's Hispanic population increased an astounding 103.6%, or 278,459 people, in ten years.
Major Hispanic groups include 314,351 Mexicans, 43,337 Puerto Ricans and 17,648 Cubans.
All of those groups' populations increased by over 90% in the ten-year period.
Of the metro's 279,000-person increase in the Hispanic population from 2000 to 2010, 98,000 came in Gwinnett County, 37,000 in Cobb, 25,000 in Fulton (all but 3,000 outside the city of Atlanta), 20,000 in Hall, and 15,000 in DeKalb County.

Metro Atlanta is increasingly international, with its 716,434 foreign-born residents in 2010, a 69% increase versus 2000.
This was the fourth largest rate of growth among the nation's top 100 metros, after Baltimore, Orlando and Las Vegas.
The foreign-born proportion of the population went up from 10.3% to 13.6%, and Atlanta moved up from 14th to 12th in ranking of U.S. metro areas with the largest immigrant population by sheer numbers.
Still, its 13.6% proportion of immigrants is only the 29th highest of the nation's top 100 metros.

In 1990 Greater Atlanta had the largest Japanese population in the Southeast United States.
The Consulate General of Japan in Atlanta estimated that, during that year, 3,500 to 4,000 Japanese lived in Greater Atlanta.
Of the metropolitan areas in the Southeast United States, as of 1990 Greater Atlanta had the most extensive education network for Japanese nationals.

The Atlanta metro area has a humid subtropical climate with four seasons, although summer is the longest.
January daily lows average from  north to south, and highs range from , but often reach well above or below this average.
There is an average annual snowfall of about , falling mostly from December through March, though there was snow north of the city on April 3, 1987.
Snow flurries are actually common during the winter months when there is an especially deep trough in the jet stream.
These events usually do not amount to more than a slight dusting and therefore go unrecognized in most weather summaries.
Summers, by contrast, are long and consistently hot and humid, with July mornings averaging  and afternoons averaging , slight breezes, and typically a 20–40% chance of afternoon thunderstorms.
During the summer afternoon thunderstorms, temperatures may suddenly drop to 70-77 degrees with locally heavy rainfall.
Average annual rainfall is about , with late winter and early spring (as well as July) being the wettest and fall (especially October) being the driest.

From 1878 to 2011, the highest recorded temperatures at Atlanta were  on three days in the extraordinarily hot July 1980, followed by  that month and in August 2007, the hottest month ever for the area.
This was broken on the last day of June 2012, when the temperature reached , during a massive heat wave that hit most of the country, with another 105 the next day tying the July record.
The lowest recorded temperatures were  and  on January 20 and 21 of 1985, and  on February 13, 1899, during severe cold snaps that went so far south they devastated the entire citrus industry in central Florida.

Hurricane Opal brought sustained tropical storm conditions to the area one night in early October 1995, uprooting hundreds of trees and causing widespread power outages, after soaking the area with rain for two days prior.
Since 1950 some metro counties have been hit more than 20 times by tornadoes, with Cobb (26) and Fulton (22) being two of the highest in the state.
The Dunwoody tornado in early April 1998 was the worst tornado to have struck the area.
A tornado struck downtown Atlanta in March 2008, causing a half-billion dollars in damage, one of the most expensive storms ever recorded anywhere.

The area experiences a winter storm with significant snowfall about once each year, however this can be extremely irregular.
A blizzard (see: 1993 Storm of the Century) caught much of the Southeast off-guard in 1993, dumping  at the Atlanta airport on March 13, and much more than that in the suburbs to the north and west, as well as in the mountains.
The only other recorded winter storm of comparable severity was the Great Blizzard of 1899.
The heaviest snow, however, was in January 1940, when  buried the city during its coldest month on record.
The second-heaviest was in 1983, when a very late storm dumped  on March 24.
Ice storms have also occurred in the area.
The well-remembered 1973 ice storm was brutal as was the storm in 1982.

The Southeastern U.S. drought of 2006–2008 began with dry weather in 2006, and left area lakes very low.
The drought finally began to abate significantly after the 2009 Atlanta floods, when some areas got up to  of rain in a week, with half of that falling in just 24 hours near the end of the period.
The USGS calculated it to be a greater-than-500-year flood.

Disputes over water are becoming increasingly common, with both Alabama and Florida filing lawsuits and threatening injunctions to prevent Georgia from taking too much water, mostly for metro Atlanta.
South Carolina also threatened when a pipeline east to the Savannah River was mentioned even informally.
The state has now been ordered by a judge to reduce withdrawals from the Chattahoochee south of Lanier to 1970s levels within three years (2012), something that would create an immediate emergency water shortage if it were actually enforced.
This was done because it was ruled the U.S. Congress never authorized the use of the lake as a water supply.

The city's lush tree canopy, which filters out pollutants and cools sidewalks and buildings, has increasingly been under assault from man and nature due to heavy rains, drought, aged forests, new pests, and urban construction.
A 2001 study found that Atlanta's heavy tree cover declined from 48% in 1974 to 38% in 1996.
This loss of tree canopy resulted in a 33% increase in stormwater runoff and a loss of 11 million pounds of pollutants removed annually, a value of approximately $28 million per year.
Due to a historic drought in the late 2000s, Atlanta lost trees at an unprecedented rate.
For example, Piedmont Park lost about a dozen large, historic trees in 2009, compared to two or three during normal years.
Although many of Atlanta's trees are between 80–100 years old and thus reaching the end of their normal lifespan, the drought accelerated their demise by shrinking the trees' roots.
However, the problem is being addressed by community organizations and city government.
Trees Atlanta, a non-profit organization founded in 1985, has planted and distributed over 75,000 shade trees.
Atlanta's city government awarded $130,000 in grants to neighborhood groups to plant trees.

Atlanta has a reputation as the "city in a forest" due to its abundance of trees, unique among major cities.
The city's main street is named after a tree, and beyond the Downtown, Midtown, and Buckhead business districts, the skyline gives way to a dense canopy of woods that spreads into the suburbs.
The nickname is factually accurate, as the city's tree coverage percentage is at 36%, the highest out of all major American cities, and above the national average of 27%.
Atlanta's tree coverage does not go unnoticed—it was the main reason cited by "National Geographic" in naming Atlanta a "Place of a Lifetime":"For a sprawling city with the nation’s ninth-largest metro area, Atlanta is surprisingly lush with trees—magnolias, dogwoods, Southern pines, and magnificent oaks."

The low-density residential subdivision development that dominates the Atlanta area has historically not been required to replace lost tree inventory.
Because of larger lot sizes and natural-looking architecture, such as California contemporary, older neighborhoods typically have many mature forest trees, except in cases where they have been destroyed by homeowners.
Increasing density allowed by zoning since the 1980s has meant fewer and fewer trees left, and by the 2000s it became common for developers to completely clearcut dozens of acres of forest and bulldoze all hills flat to build generic tract housing, often with tightly packed homes nearly touching each other and up against the street.
However, over the past decade some area cities and counties have revised their tree ordinances to require tree recompense to be equal to or greater than the pre-development tree density, trying to ensure a future tree canopy.
Rather than leaving trees on each home lot as before, this typically involves a set-aside of green space in each development, with most other areas still clear-cut.
Even when some trees are replaced, it is with a single type of trees planted the same distance from each other, rather than different trees at random placement and age as in the native forest.
At a rate of 50 acres (20 hectares) per day, the deforestation brought by land development has had a significant impact on area watersheds, as they now flood far more rapidly and to a much greater extent than prior to development.

The City of Atlanta also owns  of land located southwest of Dawsonville, Georgia, which was purchased in 1972 from Lockheed, and was the previous site of the Georgia Nuclear Aircraft Laboratory (GNAL).
The property is currently referred to as the Dawson Forest City of Atlanta Tract, and managed by the Georgia Forestry Commission with a trail system open to the public.
The tract is located approximately ten miles from the end of limited access on Georgia 400 north of Cumming, Georgia.
An area of  previously occupied by GNAL was restricted following 1978 testing which found residual nuclear radiation from the experiments performed there.
Subsequent studies in 1991 and 1997 found radiation levels to be at or slightly above normal background levels.
The property also encompasses Amicalola Creek, which various groups are lobbying to be designated as a scenic river.
The forest has also been proposed for use as a major reservoir for the city of Atlanta water system.

On November 29, 2010 Atlanta was hit by an EF4 tornado.
The tornado completely destroyed a mansion and caused severe damage to several other homes.
This was the second EF4 tornado to strike Louisiana in 2010.
The Atlanta tornado was the 13th EF4 tornado of the year in the United States, the most since 1999.

In recent decades, Atolinga's population has decreased due to emigration.
Migrants from Atolinga can be found throughout the United States, especially in Chicago, Atlanta, and the San Gabriel Valley region of California.
Journalist Sam Quinones has written about such migrants in his book "Antonio's Gun and Delfino's Dream: True Tales of Mexican Migration".

Snowfall is not nearly as common as in Atlanta, due largely to Augusta's elevation, with downtown Augusta being about 900 feet lower than downtown Atlanta.
Still, snow flurries are typically seen annually.
Freezing rain is also a threat in wintertime.

Bahamians began visiting the Florida Keys in the 18th century to salvage wrecked ships, fish, catch turtles and log tropical hardwood trees.
A Bahamian settlement in the Keys was reported in 1790, but the presence of Bahamians in the keys was temporary.
Early in the 19th century some 30 to 40 Bahamian ships were working in the keys every year.
After 1825, Bahamian wreckers began moving to Key West in large numbers.
Today, the largest Bahamian American populations are in Atlanta, Oklahoma City, Miami, and New York.

With the reverse movement of the New Great Migration, the South has been the gaining region for black migrants coming from all three other census regions, especially from 1995-2000.
The chief gaining states have been Georgia, North Carolina, Florida, Maryland, Virginia and Tennessee.
In the same period, Georgia, Texas and Maryland attracted the most black college graduates.
Houston and Dallas center cities have lost black population as the middle class has moved to the suburbs.
In a change from previous settlement patterns, new regional migrants settle directly in the suburbs, the areas of largest residential growth and often the location of jobs as well.
In addition to Atlanta, the top metropolitan areas attracting African Americans include Orlando, Tampa and Miami, Florida; and Charlotte, North Carolina.

Early years of residential change accelerated in the late 1960s after passage of civil rights legislation ended segregation, and African Americans could exercise more choices in housing and jobs.
Since the 1950s, there began a period of major restructuring of industries and loss of hundreds of thousands of industrial jobs in northeast and Midwest cities.
Since the late 20th century, these events led to reduced density in formerly black neighborhoods in cities such as Chicago, Detroit, and Philadelphia, which have also had absolute population decreases, losing white population as well.
Since the 2000 census, the number and proportion of black population has decreased in several major cities, including New York, Los Angeles, Atlanta, Boston, San Francisco, and Washington, DC.

The official United States Census category of Hispanic or Latino is limited explicitly to people of "Spanish culture or origin", and therefore does not include Brazilian Americans.
The first recorded Brazilians to emigrate to the United States came in the 1960s.
Before then, Brazilians were included in a group formed by all South American groups and were not counted separately.
Of the 234,761 people of South America that arrived to United States between 1820 and 1960, at least, some of them were Brazilian, already in 1960 the U.S. Census Bureau report counted  27,885 Americans of Brazilian ancestry.
From 1960 until the mid-1980s between 1,500 and 2,300 Brazilian immigrants arrived in the United States each year.
Since the mid-1980s poverty in Brazil quickly increased, as a result between 1986 and 1990 1.4 million Brazilians emigrated to the United States, as well as Japan, and Europe.
It was not until the 80's when Brazilian emigration reached significant levels.
Thus, between 1987 and 1991, an estimated 20,800 Brazilians arrived in United States.
A significant number of them - 8.133 Brazilians - arrived in 1991.
The 1990 U.S. Census Bureau recorded  that there are about 60,000 Brazilians living in the United States.
However, other sources indicate that there are near 100,000 Brazilians living in the New York area alone in addition to sizable Brazilian communities in Atlanta, Boston, Washington, D.C., Los Angeles, Miami, and Phoenix.

The 2000 census counted 38,579 people, 15,886 households, and 7,402 families residing in the North Atlanta CDP.
The population density was 5,040.6 people per square mile (1,947.1/km²).
There were 16,636 housing units at an average density of 2,173.6/sq
mi (839.6/km²).
The racial makeup of the CDP was 61.52% White, 17.56% African American, 0.41% Native American, 4.88% Asian, 0.05% Pacific Islander, 12.64% from other races, and 2.94% from two or more races.
Hispanic or Latino of any race were 27.41% of the population.

By the 1900s Brooks began to grow due to the rail road.
According to Daniel Langford Jr. several stores were built including a bank, a drugstore, cotton gins, grist mills, blacksmith shops, and several other stores were built.
Although businesses were on the rise in the small town, the main source of economy for the town was farming.
Cotton was the number one crop for a long time until 1921 when the boll weevil appeared quickly destroying crops and placing the town in to an economic depression which also caused the town to lose its charter.
By the time the country hit the Great Depression, Brooks had been suffering alone for eight long years.
Brooks began to come out of the depression in 1939 after electricity was installed in the town.
Around this time Brooks received its town charter again.
Another factor in the growth of the town was due to the rise in airline industry.
Airline employees from Atlanta began to buy large tracks of farmland.
Farming also changed as it moved away from the cotton industry changing to the cattle industry.

Today Brooks is still considered to be rural but, agriculture is no longer the main source of economy.
Much of Brooks is being divided into small  to  lots ready for the construction of a generally nice homes.
Brooks is now a residential area that many people are moving to since it is still considered to be rural.
People are trying to get out of the fast pace city and moving to close rural areas such as Brooks.
Besides construction, much of the economy of the citizens of Brooks come from the city in which the people drive to work in metro areas such as Fayetteville or even in Atlanta.
Brooks now has some stores in town that also contribute to the economy such as a women’s hair salon and tanning shop, a barber shop, deer processor, storage center, and several convenient stores.

Buford Highway is a linear community made up of multi-ethnic suburban neighborhoods and shopping centers.
Similar to other sun belt cities, immigrants who relocated to Atlanta in the 20th and 21st centuries went straight to the suburbs, where residential and commercial real estate was affordable and where many second-generation immigrant communities were already established.
Along Buford Highway, there are few wholly distinct ethnic areas.
The more than 1,000 immigrant-owned businesses are owned by and patronized by a wide variety of ethnic groups, notably Korean, Mexican, Chinese and Vietnamese, and also Indian/South Asian, Central American and Ethiopian.
The DeKalb County Chamber of Commerce calls the area the "International Corridor."

Buford Highway originated as a non-descript state roadway connecting Atlanta and points northeast, including the then-railroad towns of Chamblee and Doraville, as well as points farther north.
The towns of Doraville, Chamblee and Norcross had long been home to a blue collar, largely white, lower middle-class population.
The highway was characterized by strip mall development, and apartment complexes sprouted up in the 1960s and 1970s.
In 1976 the first ethnic restaurant opened, the Havana Sandwich Shop.
In the 1980s, immigrants settled in the area due to affordable housing, available public transportation, and proximity to construction jobs in growing Gwinnett County.
The area attracted many Latino workers during the construction boom that preceded the 1996 Olympic Games.
Asian business owners were attracted to the stretch of highway by cheap leases and reliable traffic flow.

"Bull Sluice Lake" is a small reservoir located along the Chattahoochee River in northern Georgia, in the northern suburbs of metro Atlanta.
It is , and is impounded by Morgan Falls Dam.
Besides the hydroelectric power produced by the dam, the lake's primary use is recreation, including fishing and rowing.
It also now helps to buffer releases by Buford Dam, from the much larger (by 500 times) Lake Lanier,  upstream.

Bull Sluice Lake is created by Morgan Falls Dam, a small hydroelectric dam located along the Chattahoochee River at the northern end of Sandy Springs, Georgia, in north metro Atlanta, located in East Cobb County.
Originally constructed in 1904 by Georgia Power to provide electricity for Atlanta's streetcars, it now provides enough power for about 4400 homes.
It was named for then recently deceased Georgia Power president S. Morgan Smith's mother whose maiden name was Morgan.
At the time it was by far the largest hydroelectric plant in the state.
In 1924 it was rebuilt as a 60 cycle plant with 15,000 kilowatts (up from the original 10,500kW).
In 1957 it was raised to regulate the flow from Buford Dam in order to give Atlanta water during the hours it was needed most.
It is 896 feet or 314 meters long, and 56 feet or 17 meters tall.
The dam's current license from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) was issued in March 1959, and expires in February 2009.
Georgia Power has begun the required impact studies for re-licensing of the dam, which will be for 30 or 50 years.

During a weather incident during a July 2006 game vs the Atlanta Braves, portable concession stands were knocked over, the infield rain tarp was damaged, and plastic sheets used to protect the press box were dislodged.
As a result of the storm at least thirty spectators were injured, of whom five were taken to the hospital.
After the storm happened, the stadium designated shelter areas for such disasters which are located throughout the ballpark.

Despite greatly relaxed lending standards and low interest rates, many regions of the country saw very little growth during the "bubble period".
Out of 20 largest metropolitan areas tracked by the S&P/Case-Shiller house price index, six (Dallas, Cleveland, Detroit, Denver, Atlanta, and Charlotte) saw less than 10% price growth in inflation-adjusted terms in 2001–2006.
During the same period, seven metropolitan areas (Tampa, Miami, San Diego, Los Angeles, Las Vegas, Phoenix, and Washington DC) appreciated by more than 80%.

Somewhat paradoxically, as the housing bubble deflates some metropolitan areas (such as Denver and Atlanta) have been experiencing high foreclosure rates, even though they did not see much house appreciation in the first place and therefore did not appear to be contributing to the national bubble.
This was also true of some cities in the Rust Belt such as Detroit and Cleveland, where weak local economies had produced little house price appreciation early in the decade but still saw declining values and increased foreclosures in 2007.
As of January 2009 California, Michigan, Ohio and Florida were the states with the highest foreclosure rates.

As three states have needs related to the river, there has been increasing controversy since the late twentieth century related to competing development among the regions and the implications for the river.
The enormous growth of metropolitan Atlanta has increased its water withdrawals from the river.
This has effects downstream.
For example, the oysters in the Apalachicola Bay, Florida, depend on the brackish water mixture of river and ocean water, and the alternating freshwater and saltwater flows that the river and the tides provide.
The amount of flow in the Chattahoochee has also been decreased by interbasin water transfers, where water is withdrawn from the Chattahoochee, but discharged as treated sewage water into another river, such as the Oconee River, which flows to the Atlantic Seaboard.

The second most recent major flood along the river occurred during the 2009 Georgia floods, with  of water recorded at Vinings at the northwestern Atlanta city limit.
The flood was over  higher than the previous flood recorded in September 2004, as a result of Hurricane Fred.
Numerous tributaries also swelled far over and beyond their banks.
These were the highest water levels seen since 1990, and the second-highest ever since the large Buford Dam was built upstream.
The National Weather Service in Peachtree City estimated that this was a 500-year flood event.

During the historic September 2009 Atlanta floods, Clarkdale Elementary School (part of Cobb County Public Schools) was ruined by Noses Creek in the hours after students and faculty evacuated.
Although outside the 100-year flood plain, massive rainfall and upstream land development caused the stream to swell to more than ten times its normal height, also flooding other locations in Clarkdale.
The new Clarkdale Elementary School opened at a different location in August 2012.

Southern and southeast areas of the state experience snow much less frequently than other parts of Georgia.
The Georgia Piedmont, sometimes referred to as the Blue Ridge province, is somewhat cooler in winter than the coastal areas.
The Southern areas of the Piedmont may receive snow every other year, while areas close to the foothills get snow several times a year.
The mountains of Georgia have the coolest climate and most frequent snowfall in the state, although snowfall is less than any other part of the Appalachian Mountains.
The main winter weather hazard in northern Georgia is "freezing rain - or rain which freezes upon contact with the ground - which is  or more of snow falling in a 12 hour period, or  or more in a 24 hour period."
The exception to this is the mountain areas of Fannin, Gilmer, Pickens, and other surrounding counties heavy snow is " or more of snow in a 12 hour period or  or more of snow in a 24 hour period".
Watches for heavy snow are issued when a 50 percent or greater chance of  or more of snow falling in a 12 hour period, or  or more in a 24 hour period is expected.
Again, there are exceptionsthan a trace of frozen precipitation has been recorded officially for Atlanta.
The criteria for the mountain counties is " inches or more of snow in a 12 hour period or  or more of snow in a 24 hour period".

Summers are hot and humid with temperatures in the afternoons that reach, on average, to near .
Overnight lows fall to near   and there is usually an   difference in temperature between the mountains and Atlanta.
While humidity in North Georgia, especially in the mountains, can be high it is not as high as it is in South Georgia.
Summer thunderstorms add to the humidity in the area by providing  to  of rain during the summer months.

The annual average temperature in Vancouver is  downtown and  at the Airport, in Richmond, amongst the warmest in Canada.
It is located in a USDA plant hardiness zone of 8 , similar to other coastal or near-costal cities such as Seattle, Portland, Amsterdam and London, as well as places such as Atlanta, Georgia and Raleigh, North Carolina, far to the south.
The mild climate allows plants such as the Windmill Palm to sustain.

Economic problems and violence have led to an emigration of Colombians to the United States, particularly South Florida (especially in the suburbs of Miami, Florida such as Doral, Kendall, and Hialeah, and the Weston suburb of Fort Lauderdale), Central Florida, New Jersey (North Jersey), Queens County in New York City, Philadelphia, the Washington DC metro area, eastern Long Island, and an expanding community in California, Texas and Georgia, mainly in the Los Angeles, Houston and Atlanta areas.
After of World War I, many Colombians immigrated to United States in order to complete their education there, studying in the universities of this country.
Most of them settled in New York.
After the civil war in 1948 and increased poverty in Colombia many Colombians also emigrated to United States during the 50's.
In the 60's, the economic crisis prompted the emigration of many Colombians to the United States, obtaining U.S. citizenship 116.444 Between 1960 and 1977 Colombians.
Since the 80's, many Colombians American fled their urban cities to migrate to areas smaller of states like Connecticut or New Jersey, due to the high cost of living in big cities and an increase in crime in them.
The increase of the guerrillas in Colombia between 1992 and 1997 also boosted the Colombian emigration during this period.
As we discussed earlier, about 75,000 Colombians immigrated at that time the United States, concentrating mostly in the state of California.

The eleven Confederate states in the 1860 census had 297 towns and cities with 835,000 people; of these 162 with 681,000 people were at one point occupied by Union forces.
Eleven were destroyed or severely damaged by war action, including Atlanta (with an 1860 population of 9,600), Charleston, Columbia, and Richmond (with prewar populations of 40,500, 8,100, and 37,900, respectively); the eleven contained 115,900 people in the 1860 census, or 14% of the urban South.
Historians have not estimated what their actual population was when Union forces arrived.
The number of people (as of 1860) who lived in the destroyed towns represented just over 1% of the Confederacy's 1860 population.
In addition, 45 court houses were burned (out of 830).
The South's agriculture was not highly mechanized.
The value of farm implements and machinery in the 1860 Census was $81 million; by 1870, there was 40% less, worth just $48 million.
Many old tools had broken through heavy use; new tools were rarely available; even repairs were difficult.

Consol Energy operates as a producer of multiple energy sources, primarily for electric power generation.
The company's largest assets consist of its coal and natural gas divisions, but Consol also maintains support services including "Baltimore Marine Terminal", "River Division", "Research  & Development", "Land Division", and "Fairmont Supply Company".
Consol's Coal Division operates 12  coal mining complexes in four states in the United States, including Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Virginia and Utah.
As of 2011, the company maintained an estimated 4.4 billion tons of proven and probable coal reserves and produced nearly 64 million tons of coal in 2010.
The coal produced from these mining operations are sold from offices in Pittsburgh, PA, Philadelphia, PA, and Atlanta, GA.
Consol’s coal division received the U.S. Department of the Interior's Office of Surface Mining National Award for Excellence in Surface Mining for the company's innovative reclamation practices in 2002, 2003, and 2004.

CORRIM was organized to update and expand a 1976 report by the National Academy of Science that evaluated the impacts of producing and using renewable materials.
A research plan for CORRIM was completed in 1998.
Guidelines were developed for a Phase 1 Research plan in 2000 to compile life-cycle inventory (LCI) data for wood-based structural products (lumber, plywood, OSB, LVL, glulam and trusses) from the US Northwest and Southeast producing regions.
Based on these data, LCA information was compiled to compare the impacts of representative residential houses framed with wood products, steel or concrete, in both a cold (Minneapolis) and warm (Atlanta) climate.
A final report was made available for professional review in 2004 and was published after formal reviews in 2005.
A Phase 2 Research Plan was initiated in 2004 to extend the coverage to US Northeast/Northcentral supply regions and to include hardwoods; to the US Inland West supply region to include the interaction with fire management; to a broader range of structures and geographic locations; and to include MDF, particleboard and resins as large volume non-structural uses of wood fiber.

During the 1970s, like with many large cities within the United States, Atlanta's population began to decline.
By 1990, the population was 394,017, down almost 20% from its population in 1970, which was 496,973.
In addition, the city center and surrounding areas began to go through an urban decay, and crime spiked significantly throughout the 1980s.
Along with many other major cities in the United States, Atlanta was hard hit by the crack epidemic of most of the 1980s to early 1990s.
In 1994, Atlanta was ranked the most dangerous city in the country by the Morgan Quitno Press.
In 2007, drug-related crime in metro Atlanta increased slightly, in part due to Atlanta becoming an important distribution center for cocaine, and other related drugs imported from Mexico.
These increases were mostly seen in Fulton, Gwinnett, DeKalb, Cobb, and Clayton counties.
Many law enforcement agencies in the area have joined forces together with the Atlanta Police Department in an effort to decrease the overall crime in metro Atlanta.
In addition, due to large amounts of gentrification and other revitalization projects in the city core, crime continued to fall, even amidst the hard economic times of the late-2000s.

"Crime in Atlanta, Georgia", while above the national median and a major problem for the city since the middle 20th century, has been declining since the late 1990s.
Between 2001 and 2009 the crime rate in Atlanta dropped by 40 percent, according to the FBI.
Homicide fell 57 percent.
Rape was down 72 percent.
Violent crime overall was down 55 percent.
Atlanta’s public safety improvement has occurred at more than twice the rate of the rest of the country.
Crime is down across the country, but Atlanta’s improvement has far surpassed the national trend.
This relative improvement explains why Atlanta—after ranking in the top five highest crime cities for most of the previous three decades—now ranks 31st.
Atlanta has lower crime than Salt Lake City, Orlando and Tacoma, Washington.
The city is served by the Atlanta Police Department, which has an estimated 1,700 officers working in the force.
Atlanta is divided into six police zones.

In 2002, the United States Department of Health and Human Services estimated 12 million people, age 12 and over, had used methamphetamine—600,000 of which were estimated to be current users—with a growth rate of approximately 300,000 new users per year.
In 2005, a Los Angeles clinic estimated that one out of three gay or bisexual HIV-positive men admitted to using methamphetamine.
Methamphetamine may lower inhibitions, increasing the likelihood of engaging in unprotected sex and sharing needles.
In large metropolitan areas, such as Atlanta, Chicago, Miami and Washington, DC, many CMA groups are designated as "gay/lesbian" reflecting the use of methamphetamine in urban gay communities.

Atlanta, in contrast to other Southern cities, contains a large, and rapidly growing, Roman Catholic population.
The number of Catholics grew from 292,300 members in 1998 to 900,000 members in 2010, an increase of 207 percent.
The population is expected to top 1 million by 2011.
The increase is fueled by Catholics moving to Atlanta from other parts of the U.S. and the world, and from newcomers to the church.
About 16 percent of all metropolitan Atlanta residents are Catholic, comparable to many of Midwestern metropolitan areas.

Today, the city is experiencing new growth.
The completion of Georgia 400 has helped turn Cumming into a commuter town for Atlanta.
The city holds the Cumming Country Fair & Festival every October.
The Sawnee Mountain Preserve also provides views of the city from the top of Sawnee Mountain.
In 1956, Buford Dam, along the Chattahoochee River, started operating.
The reservoir that it created is called Lake Lanier.
The lake, being a popular spot for boaters, has generated income from tourists for Cumming as well as provide a source of drinking water.
However, because of rapid growth of the Atlanta area, drought, and mishandling of a stream gauge, Lake Lanier has seen record-low water levels.
Moreover, the lake is involved in a longstanding lawsuit between Georgia, Alabama, and Florida.
Because of a recent ruling, the city may not be able to withdraw its water.
However, the city is looking into different sources of water such as wells and various creeks.

"Cycling in Atlanta" has grown in popularity in recent years, from 0.33% of commutes in 2000 to 1.1% in 2009, aided by improving cycling infrastructure and community support.
Although Atlanta has historically been a city defined by the automobile, its increasingly-compact urban form and mild climate are encouraging residents to cycle to work, shopping, and recreational destinations.
Though Atlanta's famed hilly topography can make cycling difficult, many parts of the city are relatively flat, including some of the more densely populated areas.
However, heavy automobile traffic, the lack of bike lanes on many streets, and difficulty in crossing major streets deter most residents from cycling frequently in Atlanta.

It was intended and retained by the city as a potential site for Atlanta's second airport, however in late summer 2009 it was made known that part may be used for the "Shoal Creek Reservoir", a reservoir that would send water mainly to the city of Atlanta system, at its water works in Sandy Springs.
However, this  pipeline would result in an interbasin transfer from the Etowah River to the Chattahoochee River, which is currently prohibited by the metro Atlanta water district, and would leave less water in Lake Allatoona.
Additionally, Alabama has sued to stop nearly everything Georgia has tried to do with the upstream water supply, including the Hickory Log Creek reservoir.
Without these lawsuits, it has been estimated that it could be permitted and built by 2013.
The lake would be , leaving the remainder as forest.

Informal day labor is not new to the United States, and day laborers are not always migrant workers in many cases.
In his study of day laborers in Atlanta, Terry Easton interviews white and black day laborers in addition to hispanic workers.
Many other metropolitan areas still have non-immigrant day laborers, and many other large and small cities have immigrant day laborers from a variety of countries, including Mongolia, Poland, Russia, Brazil, Central and South America, and countries in Africa.
Non-immigrant informal day labor, seen in many cities, does not generate the controversy or calls to police and local government seen when immigrant day laborers gather to wait for work.

De-icing on the ground is usually done by spraying aircraft with a de-icing fluid based on propylene glycol, similar to ethylene glycol antifreeze used in some automobile engine coolants.
Ethylene Glycol (EG) is still in use for aircraft de-icing in some parts of the world because it has a lower operational use temperature (LOUT) than PG, but Propylene Glycol (PG) is more common because it is classified as non-toxic, unlike Ethylene Glycol.
Nevertheless, it still must be used with a containment system to capture the used liquid, so that it cannot seep into the ground and water courses.
Even though classified as non-toxic, it has negative effects in nature, since it uses oxygen during breakdown, causing aquatic life to suffocate.
In one case, a significant snow in Atlanta in early January 2002 caused an overflow of such a system, briefly contaminating the Flint River downstream of the Atlanta airport.
Many airports recycle used de-icing fluid, separating water and solid contaminants, enabling reuse of the fluid in other applications.

In 2009, DeKalb earned the Atlanta Regional Commission's "Green Communities" designation for its efforts in conserving energy, water and fuel; investing in renewable energy; reducing waste; and protecting and restoring natural resources.

On 25 May, BP gave Florida $25 million to promote the beaches where the oil had not reached, and the company planned $15 million each for Alabama, Louisiana, and Mississippi.
The Bay Area Tourist Development Council bought digital billboards showing recent photos from the gulf coast beaches as far north as Nashville, Tennessee and Atlanta.
Along with assurances that the beaches were so far unaffected, hotels cut rates and offered deals such as free golf.
Also, cancellation policies were changed, and refunds were promised to those where oil may have arrived.
However, revenues remained below 2009 levels.

The city of Atlanta also has one of the highest LGBT populations per capita.
It ranks 3rd of all major cities, behind San Francisco   and slightly behind Seattle, with 12.8% of the city's total population recognizing themselves as gay, lesbian, or bisexual.
According to the 2000 United States Census (revised in 2004), Atlanta has the twelfth highest proportion of single-person households nationwide among cities of 100,000 or more residents, which was at 38.5%.

Metro Atlanta is increasingly international, with its 716,434 foreign-born residents in 2010, a 69% increase versus 2000.
This was the fourth largest rate of growth among the nation's top 100 metros, after Baltimore, Orlando and Las Vegas.
The foreign-born proportion of the population went up from 10.3% to 13.6%, and Atlanta moved up from 14th to 12th in ranking of US metro areas with the largest immigrant population by sheer numbers.
Still, its 13.6% proportion of immigrants is only the 29th highest of the nation's top 100 metros.

Hispanic Americans are the fastest growing ethnic group.
At 10.4% of the metro's population in 2010, versus only 6.5% in 2000, the metro's Hispanic population increased an astounding 103.6%, or 278,459 people, in ten years.
Major Hispanic groups include 314,351 Mexicans, 43,337 Puerto Ricans and 17,648 Cubans.
All of those groups' populations increased by over 90% in the ten-year period.
Of the metro's 279,000-person increase in the Hispanic population from 2000 to 2010, 98,000 came in Gwinnett County, 37,000 in Cobb, 25,000 in Fulton (all but 3,000 outside the city of Atlanta), 20,000 in Hall, and 15,000 in DeKalb County.

