0 houston The second part of the miniseries begins with Dr. Hill's rescue from the ruins of the Atlas Hotel just before it is swallowed up completely. The  part of the miniseries begins with Dr. 's rescue from the ruins of the Atlas Hotel just before it is swallowed up completely.
1 houston At the same time, a massive fault line forms in North Dakota, passing through South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, and Oklahoma. At the same time, a massive fault line forms in  , passing through  , , , and .
2 houston If it reaches Houston, Texas and the Gulf of Mexico, as predicted, the mid-western plains will be covered by a new ocean, just as they were thousands of years ago. If it reaches ,  and the   , as predicted, the mid-western plains will be covered by a new ocean, just as they were    .
3 houston A massive evacuation of the region is ordered, as earthquakes strike Sedona, Arizona destroying the Chapel of the Holy Cross in the process. A massive evacuation of the region is ordered, as earthquakes strike ,  destroying the Chapel of the Holy Cross in the process.
4 houston However, the (fictional) nuclear plant in Red Plains, Texas, is right in the fault's path. However, the (fictional) nuclear plant in  , , is right in the fault's path.
5 houston If it is destroyed, the entire area and hundreds of miles around will be contaminated by nuclear waste. If it is destroyed, the entire area and hundreds of miles around will be contaminated by nuclear waste.
6 houston Dr. Earl Hill comes up with a desperate plan to divert the fault around the nuclear plant by opening up a secondary fault running east, by a controlled demolition which explosively ignites the massive natural gas reserves in the area. Dr.   comes up with a desperate plan to divert the fault around the nuclear plant by opening up a secondary fault running east, by a controlled demolition which explosively ignites the massive natural gas reserves in the area.
7 houston The main fault follows the new path around Red Plains, saving the nuclear plant. The main fault follows the new path around  , saving the nuclear plant.
8 houston However, nothing can stop the fault altogether. However, nothing can stop the fault altogether.
9 houston Once again it turns south, slicing through the middle of Houston to reach the Gulf of Mexico. again it turns south, slicing through the middle of  to reach the Gulf of .
10 houston At the same time, the northern half of the fault has reached Hudson Bay. At the same time, the northern half of the fault has reached  .
11 houston When the waters rush into the fault, they create a new ocean which splits the United States and Canada in half. When the waters rush into the fault, they create a new ocean which splits the   and  in half.
12 houston "14 Hours" is based on the harrowing events of June 2001, when Tropical Storm Allison stalled over the Houston metropolitan area, pouring nearly 30 inches of rain on the city within a 14-hour period. " " is based on the harrowing events of  , when Tropical Storm  stalled over the  metropolitan area, pouring nearly  inches of rain on the city within a -hour period.
13 houston The story begins as the storm seems to be moving away from Houston. The story begins as the storm seems to be moving away from .
14 houston Jeanette Makins (JoBeth Williams), a nurse at Memorial Hermann Hospital, arrives ready for what she expects to be a normal day. ( ), a nurse at   , arrives ready for what she expects to be a normal .
15 houston But Tropical Storm Allison's rains return, quickly turning a normal day into a nightmare. But Tropical Storm 's rains return, quickly turning a normal  into a nightmare.
16 houston As floodwaters inundate the lower levels of the hospital, a brilliant young surgeon, Dr. Foster (Rick Schroder), makes the decision to move the patients to safer ground, including a young couple whose premature baby is struggling for life, as well as,  a girl and her mother, severely hurt in a car accident. As floodwaters inundate the lower levels of the hospital, a brilliant young surgeon, Dr.  ( ), makes the decision to move the patients to safer ground, including a young couple whose premature baby is struggling for life, as well as,  a girl and her mother, severely hurt in a car accident.
17 houston With the resourceful thinking of Chuck Whortle (Kris Kristofferson), chief of Harris County Emergency Management, the hospital staff and volunteers race against the clock to get all patients to safety. With the resourceful thinking of   ( tofferson), chief of    , the hospital staff and volunteers race against the clock to get all patients to safety.
18 houston A tropical storm  was first sighted north of the Yucatan Peninsula on June 8.The storm moved northwest and then north, eventually hitting Houston, Texas. A tropical storm  was  sighted north of the   on  .The storm moved northwest and then north, eventually hitting , .
19 houston The storm track was nearly identical to that of Tropical Storm One in terms of wind speed and point of landfall. The storm track was nearly identical to that of    in terms of wind speed and point of landfall.
20 houston Many ships were wrecked and several houses and a church destroyed at Galveston. Many ships were wrecked and several houses and a church destroyed at .
21 houston Rain from this cyclone aggravated the flooding in New Orleans caused by Tropical Storm One a week earlier. Rin from this cyclone ggrvted the flooding in   cused by      erlier.
22 houston A strong,  tropical storm  was first observed south of Florida on June 1. A strong,  tropical storm  was  observed south of  on  .
23 houston The storm traversed through the Gulf of Mexico before making landfall near Houston, Texas as a tropical storm on June 4, where a minimum pressure of 999 mbar was measured. The storm traversed through the Gulf of  before making landfall near ,  as a tropical storm on  , where a minimum pressure of  mbar was measured.
24 houston A station in Galveston, Texas recorded  of rain during a 14 minute time span on June 4. A station in ,  recorded  of rain during a   time span on  .
25 houston Galveston was partially flooded with some railroads and buildings washed away. was partially flooded with some railroads and buildings washed away.
26 houston One vessel, the steamship "Alabama" was thrown ashore at Galveston,while another,the "Virginia Dare" grounded on an offshore sandbar there. vessel, the steamship "" was thrown ashore at ,while another,the "Virginia Dare" grounded on an offshore sandbar there.
27 houston Extremely heavy rains associated with this cyclone also caused flooding in New Orleans. Extremely heavy rains associated with this cyclone also caused flooding in  .
28 houston The New York Times,on June 6,reported that five hundred blocks of the city were submerged. The   ,on  ,reported that   blocks of the city were submerged.
29 houston Eventually the storm dissipated in present-day Oklahoma. Eventually the storm dissipated in present-day .
30 houston The Atlantic hurricane database (HURDAT) recognizes eight tropical cyclones for the 1871 season. The  hurricane database (HURDAT) recognizes  tropical cyclones for the  season.
31 houston Two were tropical storms and six were hurricanes, with winds of 75 mph (119 km/h) or greater.Tropical Storm One travelled from south of Florida on June 1 to make landfall near Houston, Texas before dissipating further inland.The second tropical storm of the season also made landfall near Houston.Both storms caused considerable damage in Galveston and brought flooding to New Orleans.The third cyclone of the season, and the first hurricane, travelled west from the Bahamas to make landfall in central Florida.It passed through Florida, Georgia and South Carolina and out into the Atlantic.There it looped back and made landfall in Georgia as a tropical storm.Hurricane Four, the second hurricane of the season, started as a tropical storm west of Cape Verde.It crossed the Atlantic to make landfall, first in the Lesser Antilles,then in the Bahamas and then Florida before crossing the Florida peninsula into the Atlantic.Hurricane Five was a category 2 hurricane,active between August 30 and September 2, that did not make landfall anywhere.Hurricane Six was a category one hurricane that travelled from the Gulf of Mexico across Florida between September 5 and September 8.Hurricane Seven developed from a tropical storm, which was first seen in the Bay of Campeche on September 30.It strengthed to a category 1 hurricane as it travelled off the Texas coast but weakened back to a tropical storm before crossing the Florida peninsula.This cyclone was responsible for numerous shipwrecks.Hurricane Eight, the last cyclone of the season was first seen as a category 1 hurricane on October 10, north-east of the British Virgin Islands.The hurricane travelled as far north as Nova Scotia before dissipating on October 13. were tropical storms and  were hurricanes, with winds   mph ( km/h) or greater.Tropical Storm  travelled from south   on   to make landfall near ,  before dissipating further inland.The  tropical storm  the season also made landfall near .Both storms caused considerable damage in  and brought flooding to New Orleans.The  cycl  the season, and the  hurricane, travelled west from the  to make landfall in central .It passed through ,  and   and out into the .There it looped back and made landfall in  as a tropical storm.Hurricane , the  hurricane  the season, started as a tropical storm west   Verde.It crossed the  to make landfall,  in the Lesser Antilles,then in the  and then  before crossing the  peninsula into the .Hurricane  was a category  hurricane,active between   and  , that did not make landfall anywhere.Hurricane  was a category  hurricane that travelled from the    across  between   and  .Hurricane  developed from a tropical storm, which was  seen in the Bay of  on  .It strengthed to a category  hurricane as it travelled off the  coast but weakened back to a tropical storm before crossing the  peninsula.This cyclone was responsible for numerous shipwrecks.Hurricane , the last cyclone of the season was  seen as a category  hurricane on  0, north-east of the British Virgin Islands.The hurricane travelled as far north as   before dissipating on  3.
32 houston On October 18 a tropical storm formed west of Jamaica. On   a tropical storm formed west of .
33 houston As it neared landfall in Cuba, it strengthened to a 100 mph (160 km/h) hurricane, but weakened while crossing the island. As it neared landfall in , it strengthened to a  mph ( km/h) hurricane, but weakened while crossing the island.
34 houston It passed over southeast Florida and the Bahamas, strengthening to a 100 mph (160 km/h) hurricane again before hitting North Carolina between Wilmington and Morehead City.The hurricane raced across the interior of the United States, becoming extratropical on the 24th over New York. It passed over southeast  and the , strengthening to a  mph ( km/h) hurricane again before hitting   between  and  City.The hurricane raced across the interior of the  , becoming extratropical on the  over  .
35 houston The hurricane caused over $2 million in damage, and at least 72 casualties.These included 19 people killed when a ship, the "A.S.Davis", was driven ashore at Virginia Beach.In all the hurricane was responsible for 22 shipwrecks.Among these was the steamer "City of Houston" which was lost on  Frying Pan Shoals. The hurricane caused over $2 million in damage, and at least  casualties.These included  people killed when a ship, the "A.S.Davis", was driven ashore at  Beach.In all the hurricane was responsible for  shipwrecks.Among these was the steamer "City of " which was lost on  Frying Pan Shoals.
36 houston The storm ended the rivalry between Galveston and Indianola as the chief port of Texas. The storm ended the rivalry between  and  as the chief port of .
37 houston With the abandonment of Indianola and the unwillingness of the former residents to rebuild close to shore, Galveston became the most important Texan port until the 1900 Galveston Hurricane led to the rise of Houston as a major port. With the abandonment of  and the unwillingness of the former residents to rebuild close to shore,  became the most important  port until the   Hurricane led to the rise of  as a major port.
38 houston The 1915 Hurricane made landfall on the Texas coast as a Category 4 hurricane with sustained winds of 135 mph (215 km/h). The  Hurricane made landfall on the  coast as a Category  hurricane with sustained winds of  mph ( km/h).
39 houston The areas in Texas hardest hit were Galveston and Houston. The areas in  hardest hit were  and .
40 houston In Galveston, the death toll was only eleven due to a recently built seawall. In , the death toll was only  due to a  built seawall.
41 houston Elsewhere there were 111 fatalities (42 in Galveston Island and 62 offshore), and 102 others were reported missing and assumed dead. Elsewhere there were  fatalities ( in   and  offshore), and  others were reported missing and assumed dead.
42 houston Total damage was $56 million (1915 USD). Total damage was $56 million ( USD).
43 houston A Cape Verde type hurricane, the 1915 Hurricane was detected as a tropical storm moving westward on August 5. A Cape Verde type hurricane, the  Hurricane was detected as a tropical storm moving westward on  .
44 houston Then it was officially observed on August 10 as a Category 1 hurricane. Then it was officially observed on   as a Category  hurricane.
45 houston By that time, the storm was centered north of Barbados. By that time, the storm was centered north of .
46 houston On August 11, the eye of the hurricane passed south of the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico. On  , the eye of the hurricane passed south of the   and  .
47 houston A weather station in San Juan recorded a 29.60 inch (987 mbar) pressure reading and winds up to 60 mph (110 km/h). A weather station in   recorded a  inch ( mbar) pressure reading and winds up to  mph ( km/h).
48 houston The hurricane continued to move westward between 18 and 20 mph (25–30 km/h) where it brushed Haiti and made landfall in Jamaica. The hurricane continued to move westward between    mph (– km/h) where it brushed   made lfall in .
49 houston A barometric pressure reading of 29.68 inch (983 mbar) was reported in Jamaica. A barometric pressure reading of  inch ( mbar) was reported in .
50 houston The 1915 hurricane then turned slightly west-northwest, brushing Cuba as it went along. The  hurricane then turned slightly west-northwest, brushing  as it went along.
51 houston Unfazed by the landfall on Jamaica, the hurricane rapidly intensified and was located near Isle of Pines, Cuba on August 14 with 145 mph (230 km/h) winds. Unfazed by the landfall on , the hurricane rapidly intensified and was located near   ,  on   with 5 mph ( km/h) winds.
52 houston On the 15th, the hurricane was in the central Gulf of Mexico still moving in a northwesterly direction. On the , the hurricane was in the central Gulf of  still moving in a northwesterly direction.
53 houston On August 16, the center of the storm was approaching the east coast of Texas, where the storm weakened slightly but was still a Category 4 storm. On  , the center of the storm was approaching the east coast of , where the storm weakened slightly but was still a Category  storm.
54 houston On the 17th, the hurricane made landfall southwest of Galveston, Texas. On the , the hurricane made landfall southwest of , .
55 houston Atmospheric pressure at landfall was at 27.76 inches (940 mbar) and 135 mph (215 km/h) winds. Atmospheric pressure at landfall was at  inches ( mbar) and  mph ( km/h) winds.
56 houston After leaving Galveston, the weakening storm took a turn to the northeast and passed Houston as a Category 1 hurricane before dropping to tropical storm status later that day. After leaving , the weakening storm took a turn to the northeast and passed  as a Category  hurricane before dropping to tropical storm status later that .
57 houston On August 20, the dying storm passed over Missouri and the Ohio Valley before finally becoming extratropical on August 23. On  , the dying storm passed over  and the   before finally becoming extratropical on  .
58 houston In Houston, the hurricane brought  winds and heavy rainfall that left $1 million (1915 USD) in damage, but there were no reports of fatalities or deaths in the city. In , the hurricane brought  winds and heavy rainfall that left $1 million ( USD) in damage, but there were no reports of fatalities or deaths in the city.
59 houston The storm significantly damaged much of the cotton, corn, and rice harvests. The storm significantly damaged much of the cotton, corn, and rice harvests.
60 houston A tropical storm formed in the western Caribbean before moving across the Yucatan peninsula into the southern Gulf of Mexico. A tropical storm formed in the western  before moving across the   into the southern   .
61 houston The storm recurved towards the north, strengthening into a category 1 hurricane before it struck Sargent, Texas. The storm recurved towards the north, strengthening into a category  hurricane before it struck , .
62 houston During the night of June 21, winds increased to  at Corpus Christi, Texas. During the night of  , winds increased to  at  , .
63 houston A barge with 18,000 gallons of oil sank in Port Aransas, Texas. A barge with  gallons of oil sank in  , .
64 houston A storm surge of  was measured at  Pass Cavallo. A storm surge of  was measured at  Pass Cavallo.
65 houston As the cyclone moved inland, it passed directly over Palacios, Texas, Wharton, Texas, and Wallis, Texas. As the cyclone moved inland, it passed directly over , , , , and , .
66 houston Winds gusted to  at both Galveston, Texas and Houston, Texas. Winds gusted to  at both ,  and , .
67 houston Heavy rains accompanied the system, with  recorded at Matagorda, Texas. Heavy rains accompanied the system, with  recorded at , .
68 houston Tropical Storm Two formed off the western coast of Florida on September 16 and began moving west-southwest. Tropical Storm  formed off the western coast of  on   and began moving west-southwest.
69 houston Operationally, the cyclone was first observed on September 18, to the south of Louisiana. Operationally, the cyclone was  observed on  , to the south of .
70 houston After intensifying to a Category 1 hurricane, the storm began drifting southward towards the Yucatan Peninsula, ultimately executing a clockwise loop. After intensifying to a Category  hurricane, the storm began drifting southward towards the  , ultimately executing a clockwise loop.
71 houston By September 21 it had turned northward before assuming a more northwestward course. By   it had turned northward before assuming a more northwestward course.
72 houston It moved across the western Gulf of Mexico and went ashore in Texas on September 23. It moved across the western Gulf of  and went ashore in  on  .
73 houston It curved towards the northeast, passing just east of Houston, and accelerated as it continued to move inland. It curved towards the northeast, passing just east of , and accelerated as it continued to move inland.
74 houston The cyclone transitioned into an extratropical storm on September 24, and was last recorded in southern Quebec. The cyclone transitioned into an extratropical storm on  , and was last recorded in southern .
75 houston The "1941 Texas hurricane", the second storm of the 1941 Atlantic hurricane season, was a tropical cyclone that struck coastal Texas in September 1941, causing relatively severe damage. The "  hurricane", the  storm of the   hurricane season, was a tropical cyclone that struck coastal  in  , causing relatively severe damage.
76 houston The storm is estimated to have formed in the eastern Gulf of Mexico on September 16. The storm is estimated to have formed in the eastern    on  .
77 houston After attaining hurricane strength, it completed a clockwise loop and turned northwestward. After attaining hurricane strength, it completed a clockwise loop and turned northwestward.
78 houston The hurricane made landfall near Matagorda, Texas and rapidly weakened. The hurricane made landfall near ,  and rapidly weakened.
79 houston Damage from the storm amounted to about $6.5 million, and crops throughout the region were largely destroyed. Damage from the storm amounted to about $6.5 million, and crops throughout the region were largely destroyed.
80 houston The city of Houston suffered extensive damage as the storm passed to the east. The city of  suffered extensive damage as the storm passed to the east.
81 houston The hurricane disrupted activities related to the Louisiana Maneuvers. The hurricane disrupted activities related to the  Maneuvers.
82 houston Later, the system became extratropical and dissipated over Lake Huron, killing three people in Toronto. Later, the system became extratropical and dissipated over  , killing  people in .
83 houston Overall, seven people lost their lives due to the cyclone. Overall,  people lost their lives due to the cyclone.
84 houston As the hurricane moved inland, the city of Houston was hit especially hard. As the hurricane moved inland, the city of  was hit especially hard.
85 houston Three people in the area died and several others were injured. people in the area died and several others were injured.
86 houston Winds blew at up to , catching many off-guard after a previous forecast that deemed the region was safe. Winds blew at up to , catching many off-guard after a previous forecast that deemed the region was safe.
87 houston Some sections of the city were left without power. Some sections of the city were left without power.
88 houston The winds destroyed poorly built structures and damaged others, and some streets were flooded. The winds destroyed poorly built structures and damaged others, and some streets were flooded.
89 houston An athletic stadium was demolished by the storm, and glass windows were shattered in downtown stores. An athletic stadium was demolished by the storm, and glass windows were shattered in downtown stores.
90 houston A preliminary estimate placed the damage in Houston at $500,000. A preliminary estimate placed the damage in  at $500,000.
91 houston In the aftermath of the storm, fifteen truckloads of shattered glass were removed. In the aftermath of the storm,  truckloads of shattered glass were removed.
92 houston In advance of the storm, advisories and warnings were widely distributed by press, radio, telegraph and telephone. In advance of the storm, advisories and warnings were widely distributed by press, radio, telegraph and telephone.
93 houston About 25,000 residents evacuated their homes; some small towns along the coast were described as "deserted". About  residents evacuated their homes; some small towns along the coast were described as "deserted".
94 houston People in low-lying areas of coastal Louisiana sought shelter as storm surge from the hurricane affected the northern Gulf Coast. People in low-lying areas of coastal  sought shelter as storm surge from the hurricane affected the northern Gulf Coast.
95 houston Residents in Texas prepared their homes and businesses for the hurricane, and boat owners pulled their craft out of the water. Residents in  prepared their homes and businesses for the hurricane, and boat owners pulled their craft out of the water.
96 houston In Port Arthur, structures were boarded up and hundreds of refugees sought shelter in local hotels. In  , structures were boarded up and hundreds of refugees sought shelter in local hotels.
97 houston American Red Cross workers were dispatched to the state. workers were dispatched to the state.
98 houston In Houston, a temporary hospital was erected. In , a temporary hospital was erected.
99 houston Police and firefighters in the city were put on alert. Police and firefighters in the city were put on alert.
100 houston Vessels near the storm were advised to proceed with caution. Vessels near the storm were advised to proceed with caution.
101 houston By September 22, the hurricane had begun to weaken, although it maintained hurricane status for a couple more days. By  , the hurricane had begun to weaken, although it maintained hurricane status for a couple more .
102 houston The cyclone tracked generally northwestward, crossing the western half of the gulf, and moved ashore near Matagorda, Texas, during the afternoon hours of September 23; on making landfall, it weakened to a tropical storm. The cyclone tracked generally northwestward, crossing  western half   gulf, and moved ashore near , , during      ; on making landfall, it weakened to a tropical storm.
103 houston Continuing inland, the storm, quickly deteriorating, accelerate northeastward. Continuing inland, the storm, quickly deteriorating, accelerate northeastward.
104 houston The center of the storm passed just to the east of Houston, where barometric pressure fell to 971 mb, the lowest recorded in association with the hurricane. The center of the storm passed just to the east of , where barometric pressure fell to  mb, the lowest recorded in association with the hurricane.
105 houston The storm became extratropical late on September 24, as it progressed rapidly through the Mississippi Valley; its remnants eventually entered southern portions of Quebec. The storm became extratropical late on  , as it progressed rapidly through the  ; its remnants eventually entered southern portions of .
106 houston An area of convection over the Bay of Campeche rapidly developed on August 24, reaching hurricane strength that night. An area of convection over the Bay of  rapidly developed on  , reaching hurricane strength that night.
107 houston It moved northward, paralleling the Mexican and Texas coastlines while intensifying, and made landfall on August 28 near Port Aransas in central Texas as a 140 mph (225 km/h) Category 4 hurricane. It moved northward, paralleling the  and  coastlines while intensifying, and made landfall on   near   in central  as a  mph ( km/h) Category  hurricane.
108 houston The hurricane weakened to a 75 mph (120 km/h) Category 1 hurricane shortly after moving inland and passing near Houston, and the system weakened to a tropical storm shortly thereafter before weakening to a depression and dissipating inland over central Texas on August 29. The hurricane weakened to a  mph ( km/h) Category  hurricane shortly after moving inland and passing near , and the system weakened to a tropical storm shortly thereafter before weakening to a depression and dissipating inland over central  on  .
109 houston Towns from Freeport to Brownsville were subjected to hurricane-force winds, causing around $20 million (1945 US dollars) in damages, and three deaths. Towns from  to  were subjected to hurricane-force winds, causing around $20 million (  dollars) in damages, and  deaths.
110 houston The storm moved ashore near Freeport during the night of October 3, and after significantly weakening, it passed directly over Houston; the next storm to do so would be Hurricane Alicia in 1983. The storm moved ashore near  during the night of  , and after significantly weakening, it passed directly over ; the next storm to do so would be Hurricane  in 198.
111 houston Upon moving inland, the hurricane quickly deteriorated, and is estimated to have downgraded into a tropical storm within six hours of making landfall. Upon moving inland, the hurricane quickly deteriorated, and is estimated to have downgraded into a tropical storm within   of making landfall.
112 houston It turned northeastward as it continued through the central United States, weakening to a tropical depression by October 6. It turned northeastward as it continued through the central  , weakening to a tropical depression by  .
113 houston It persisted until October 8, when it is believed to have dissipated near Chicago, Illinois. It persisted until  , when it is believed to have dissipated near , .
114 houston Throughout 10 cities in Texas, 50,000 sought shelter in advance of the hurricane. Throughout  cities in ,  sought shelter in advance of the hurricane.
115 houston An estimated 28,000 residents fled to shelters; around 5,000 stayed in the Houston City Auditorium. An estimated  residents fled to shelters; around  stayed in the   .
116 houston Tropical cyclone watches and warnings were issued along coastal areas of Texas and Louisiana. Tropical cyclone watches and warnings were issued along coastal areas of  and .
117 houston Pioneer Airlines removed its aircraft from Houston, while small watercraft were kept safe in port. removed its aircraft from , while small watercraft were kept safe in port.
118 houston Schools in Corpus Christi closed by October 3, as well as businesses in the threatened area. Schools in   closed by  , as well as businesses in the threatened area.
119 houston The hurricane produced winds of  just west of Freeport, accompanied by an air pressure of  and tides of  above normal. The hurricane produced winds of  just west of , accompanied by an air pressure of  and tides of  above normal.
120 houston Precipitation from the storm was heavy, peaking at  at Goodrich. Precipitation from the storm was heavy, peaking at  at .
121 houston Rainfall extended eastward into Louisiana, amounting to  at Shreveport, Louisiana. Rainfall extended eastward into , amounting to  at , .
122 houston Urban areas sustained generally light damage. areas sustained generally light damage.
123 houston In Houston, the winds shattered some store windows and distributed debris. In , the winds shattered some store windows and distributed debris.
124 houston Galveston was temporarily cut off from the mainland during the hurricane when water surpassed the city's seawall. was temporarily cut off from the mainland during the hurricane when water surpassed the city's seawall.
125 houston The hurricane spawned a minor tornado which struck the community of Riceville, injuring on two children. The hurricane spawned a minor tornado which struck the community of , injuring on  children.
126 houston Freeport reportedly suffered the worst damage, costing approximately $150,000. reportedly suffered the worst damage, costing approximately $150,000.
127 houston Heavy rainfall was reported, peaking at  in Port Lavaca. Heavy rainfall was reported, peaking at  in  .
128 houston As a result, water  was reported in several homes and businesses in Port Lavaca. As a result, water  was reported in several homes and businesses in  .
129 houston Two boys drowned in Port Lavaca after being swept by flood waters into the city harbor. boys drowned in   after being swept by flood waters into the city harbor.
130 houston Over  fell in Bay City, and it was reported by the Bay City Tribune that all of Matagorda County was "under water". Over  fell in  , and it was reported by the   Tribune that all of   was "under water".
131 houston Due to large amounts of precipitation, portions of U.S. Route 87, U.S. Route 59, U.S. Route 90, former U.S. Route 185, Texas State Highway 71, and Texas State Highway 35 were closed. Due to large amounts of precipitation, portions of  Route ,  Route ,  Route , former  Route ,  State Highway , and  State Highway  were closed.
132 houston Rainfall totals in the Houston area peaked at more than . Rainfall totals in the  area peaked at more than .
133 houston At the height of the storm, about one-fourth of the streets in Houston were flooded. At the height of the storm, about  of the streets in  were flooded.
134 houston Three subdivisions of the city were significantly affected by flooding: Alameda Plaza, Pleasantville, and Sunnyside. subdivisions of the city were significantly affected by flooding:  , Pleasantville, and .
135 houston Several shingles were blown off the roof of a house, and then water caused the roof to collapse into the dining room and living room. Several shingles were blown off the roof of a house, and then water caused the roof to collapse into the dining room and living room.
136 houston However, no one was injured or killed. However, no  was injured or killed.
137 houston Several hundred people were evacuated from places with poor drainage or low-lying areas. Several  people were evacuated from places with poor drainage or low-lying areas.
138 houston Between 150 and 200 houses were affected by flooding and damaged estimates reached $1.5 million (1960 USD) in Houston and elsewhere in Harris County. Between  and  houses were affected by flooding and damaged estimates reached $1.5 million ( USD) in  and elsewhere in  .
139 houston In addition, three people drowned in the flood waters in Houston. In addition,  people drowned in the flood waters in .
140 houston Tropical Depression Seven formed in mid-August and tracked through the Windward Islands before dissipating in the eastern Caribbean Sea. Tropical Depression  formed in  and tracked through the   before dissipating in the eastern  .
141 houston Tropical Depression Eight led to a significant flooding event between San Antonio and Houston on August 30 and August 31 while recurving through Texas into Louisiana. Tropical Depression  led to a significant flooding event between   and  on   and   while recurving through  into .
142 houston Hurricane Emily formed on September 1 southeast of Bermuda. Hurricane  formed on   southeast of .
143 houston Emily made a cyclonic loop as a tropical storm. made a cyclonic loop as a tropical storm.
144 houston Emily strengthened into a hurricane out in the North Atlantic Ocean and by September 12, was no longer identifiable. strengthened into a hurricane out in the    and by  , was no longer identifiable.
145 houston Hurricane Floyd was a Category 3 hurricane that grazed Bermuda, but no damage was reported. Hurricane  was a Category  hurricane that grazed , but no damage was reported.
146 houston Hurricane Gert formed September 8, strengthened into a Category 2 hurricane, and followed the same track as Floyd, dissipating near the Azores. Hurricane Gert formed  , strengthened into a Category  hurricane, and followed the same track as , dissipating near the .
147 houston Hurricane Harvey became the strongest storm of the season, reaching Category 4 strength. Hurricane  became the strongest storm of the season, reaching Category  strength.
148 houston Harvey never affected land, but ships reported tropical storm-force winds. never affected land, but ships reported tropical storm-force winds.
149 houston Tropical Depression Thirteen brought gusts of tropical storm force to Bermuda in mid to late September. Tropical Depression  brought gusts of tropical storm force to  in mid to  .
150 houston Hurricane Irene also stayed out at sea, reaching Category 3 strength and was extratropical in early October. Hurricane  also stayed out at sea, reaching Category  strength and was extratropical in  .
151 houston The extratropical Irene made landfall in France. The extratropical  made landfall in .
152 houston This tropical depression formed in the Bay of Campeche on August 26 and moved slowly northwest, moving ashore northeast Mexico on August 29 and into the United States on August 30. This tropical depression formed in the Bay of  on   and moved slowly northwest, moving ashore northeast  on   and into the   on  .
153 houston As an ill-defined surface low, a large thunderstorm complex formed near its center that day, unleashing heavy rainfall in a band  wide which stretched along a path  long from Seguin, Texas to north of Houston, Texas. As an ill-defined surface low, a large thunderstorm complex formed near its center that , unleashing heavy rainfall in a band  wide which stretched along a path  long from ,  to north of , .
154 houston The highest rainfall amount reported was from Pine Springs in Fayette County, Texas, where  fell in the 24 hour period ending on the morning of August 31. The highest rainfall amount reported was from   in  , , where  fell in    period ending on  morning of  .
155 houston Five died in the town of Shiner, Texas due to the flood. died in the town of ,  due to the flood.
156 houston Downtown Halletsville flooded to a depth of . flooded to a depth of .
157 houston Significant flooding occurred along the Lavaca, Guadalupe, and Colorado rivers in Texas. Significant flooding occurred along the , , and  rivers in .
158 houston The cyclone spawned 14 tornadoes as well, including one at Scholes Field in Galveston, Texas which produced winds as high as  at 7:15 pm on August 31. The cycl spawned  tornadoes as well, including  at   in ,  which produced winds as high as  at 7:15 pm on  .
159 houston As Alicia moved northward, the remnants caused moderate to heavy rainfall in several states. As  moved northward, the remnants caused moderate to heavy rainfall in several states.
160 houston Houston suffered heavy damage, including thousands of shattered glass panes from downtown skyscrapers. suffered heavy damage, including thousands of shattered glass panes from downtown skyscrapers.
161 houston In the end, Alicia killed 22 people and caused $2 billion (1983 US$) in damage ($4.1 billion, 2007 USD). In the end,  killed  people and caused $2 billion ( US$) in damage ($4.1 billion, 2007 USD).
162 houston The "1995 Colima-Jalisco earthquake" was a Mw 8.0 earthquake which occurred on October 9 at 15:36 UTC, off the coast of Jalisco, Mexico. The " Colima- earthquake" was a Mw  earthquake which occurred on   at 15:36 UTC, off the coast of , .
163 houston At least 49 people died and 100 were injured because of the earthquake. At least  people died and  were injured because of the earthquake.
164 houston The earthquake triggered a tsunami, which affected a 200 km stretch of the coast. The earthquake triggered a tsunami, which affected a  km stretch of the coast.
165 houston The Cihuatlan-Manzanillo area, Colima, was more severely affected than other areas. The Cihuatlan-Manzanillo area, , was more severely affected than other areas.
166 houston The earthquake could be felt in Mexico City and in high-rise buildings in Dallas and Houston. The earthquake could be felt in   and in high-rise buildings in  and .
167 houston The intensities in Colima and Jalisco reached MM VI. The intensities in  and  reached MM VI.
168 houston Aided by drought, a heat wave persisted in late Summer 2000 along the southern tier of the United States from July to early September of that year. Aided by drought, a heat wave persisted in    along the southern tier of the   from     of that .
169 houston Near the end of the period, daily, monthly, and even all-time record high temperatures were broken, with highs commonly peaking well over 100 degrees Fahrenheit. Near the end of the period, daily, monthly, and even all-time record high temperatures were broken, with highs commonly peaking well over  degrees Fahrenheit.
170 houston On September 4, Houston hit 109 F and Dallas peaked at 111 F[http://www.wunderground.com/history/airport/KDFW/2000/9/5/MonthlyHistory.html?req_city=NA&req_state=NA&req_statename=NA]; on September 5, Austin, Texas [http://www.wunderground.com/history/airport/KAUS/2000/9/5/DailyHistory.html] and San Antonio peaked at 111 F [http://www.wunderground.com/history/airport/KSAT/2000/9/5/MonthlyHistory.html] while College Station reached 111 F on both the 4th and 5th of September [http://www.wunderground.com/history/airport/KCLL/2000/9/5/MonthlyHistory.html?req_city=NA&req_state=NA&req_statename=NA]. On  ,  hit  F   peaked at  F[http://www.wunderground.com/history/airport/KDFW/2000/9//MonthlyHistory.html?req_city=NA&req_state=NA&req_statename=NA]; on  , ,  [http://www.wunderground.com/history/airport/KAUS/2000/9//DailyHistory.html]    peaked at  F [http://www.wunderground.com/history/airport/KSAT/2000/9//MonthlyHistory.html] while College Station reached  F on both the th  th   [http://www.wunderground.com/history/airport/KCLL/2000/9//MonthlyHistory.html?req_city=NA&req_state=NA&req_statename=NA].
171 houston Damage totaled $4 billion, and there were 140 deaths.[http://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/oa/reports/billionz.html] Damage totaled $4 billion, and there were  deaths.[http://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/oa/reports/billionz.html]
172 houston The 2001 season was severe in terms of damages. The  season was severe in terms of damages.
173 houston The most noteworthy storms include Tropical Storm Allison, Hurricane Iris, and Hurricane Michelle. The most noteworthy storms include Tropical Storm ,  Iris, and  .
174 houston The United States was directly affected by three tropical cyclones, the first of which was Allison. The   was directly affected by  tropical cyclones, the  of which was .
175 houston Tropical Storm Allison was a major flood disaster throughout its path from Texas to the Mid-Atlantic. Tropical Storm  was a major flood disaster throughout its path from  to the .
176 houston The worst of the flooding occurred in Houston, Texas, where over 35 in (890 mm) of rain fell. The worst of the flooding occurred in , , where over  in ( mm) of rain fell.
177 houston The storm killed 41 people, of which 27 drowned. The storm killed  people, of which  drowned.
178 houston The storm also caused over $5 billion in damage (2001 USD; $  USD), making it the deadliest and costliest tropical storm on record in the United States. The storm also caused over $5 billion in damage ( USD; $  USD), making it the deadliest and costliest tropical storm on record in the  .
179 houston Allison destroyed 2,744 homes, leaving 30,000 homeless with residential damages totaling to $1.76 billion (2001 USD; $  USD). destroyed  homes, leaving  homeless with residential damages totaling to $1.76 billion ( USD; $  USD).
180 houston Tropical Storm Barry affected Florida; rainfall peaked at  at Tallahassee, and winds gusts topped out at . Tropical Storm  affected ; rainfall peaked at  at , and winds gusts topped out at .
181 houston Three people in Florida were killed by the storm, and total damage is estimated at around $30 million (2001 USD; $  USD). people in  were killed by the storm, and total damage is estimated at around $30 million ( USD; $  USD).
182 houston Later, Hurricane Gabrielle produced moderate winds along coastal areas of western Florida, reaching  at Venice. Later, Hurricane  produced moderate winds along coastal areas of western , reaching  at .
183 houston The tide flooded the northern shoreline of Charlotte Harbor and at the entrance to the Peace River, while further to the south a surge of greater than  inundated the barrier island at Fort Myers Beach and flooded some cars. The tide flooded the northern shoreline of   and at the entrance to the  , while further to the south a surge of greater than  inundated the barrier island at    and flooded some cars.
184 houston At least 29 people were killed, 300 injured, about 10,000 were left homeless, 2,005 houses were destroyed and 6,615  were damaged. At least  people were killed,  injured, about  were left homeless,  houses were destroyed and   were damaged.
185 houston Most of the deaths and damage occurred in the Villa de Álvarez area of Colima. Most of the aths and damage occurred in the    area of .
186 houston Extensive damage (rating VIII) occurred in  the city of Colima and in Tecomán. Extensive damage (rating ) occurred in  the city of  and in .
187 houston Some deaths and damage occurred in the states of Jalisco and Michoacán and a few buildings were damaged as far away as Guanajuato and Morelos. Some deaths and damage occurred in the states of  and  and a few buildings were damaged as far away as  and .
188 houston The quake was felt strongly (rating VI) in parts of Mexico City. The quake was felt strongly (rating VI) in parts of  .
189 houston It was also felt in most of Mexico and in the United States in Corpus Christi, Texas, Dallas, Texas and El Paso, Texas. It was also felt in most of  and in the   in  , , ,  and  , .
190 houston Occupants of high-rise buildings in Houston, Texas also reported feeling its effects. Occupants of high-rise buildings in ,  also reported feeling its effects.
191 houston Landslides closed a segment of the Colima-Guadalajara Highway and the port of Manzanillo. Landslides closed a segment of the Colima-Guadalajara Highway and the port of .
192 houston Power and telephone outages occurred in Mexico City. Power and telephone outages occurred in  .
193 houston A local tsunami of about 1 m (peak-to-trough) was recorded at Manzanillo. A local tsunami of about  m (peak-to-trough) was recorded at .
194 houston A seiche was observed on Lake Pontchartrain in the US state of Louisiana, and sediment was stirred up in several Louisiana wells. A seiche was observed on   in the  state of , and sediment was stirred up in several  wells.
195 houston The fact that the snow accumulated overnight on Christmas Eve led to a White Christmas the next morning, something completely foreign to the region. The fact that  snow accumulated overnight on  Eve led to a White    , something completely foreign to  region.
196 houston The city of Houston recorded the first White Christmas in its history. The city of  recorded the  White  in its history.
197 houston Across all of southern Texas and in southwestern Louisiana, snow fell in places where it had not for anywhere from 15 to 120 years. Across all of southern  and in southwestern , snow fell in places where it had not for anywhere from    .
198 houston Near the coast, in Corpus Christi, Texas,  of snow fell, more snow than in all previous recorded years combined. Near the coast, in  , ,  of snow fell, more snow than in all previous recorded  combined.
199 houston This was also the case in Victoria, Texas, where a significant  fell. This was also the case in , , where a significant  fell.
200 houston In addition to the unusual occurrence of snow inland, moderate to heavy snow was also reported over the open waters of the Gulf of Mexico. In addition to the unusual occurrence  snow inland, moderate to heavy snow was also reported over the open waters  the   .
201 houston This is the first significant snow fall in Houston since February 12, 1960 when a snowstorm hit central and south Texas with eight to 10 inches of snow. This is the  significant snow  in  since    when a snowstorm hit central and south  with  to  inches of snow.
202 houston Rita damaged wells in the western Gulf of Mexico which were primarily exploratory, leading to concerns that future production would be damped for some time to come. damaged wells in the western Gulf of  which were primarily exploratory, leading to concerns that  production would be damped for some time to come.
203 houston Additionally, as the storm churned in the Gulf, forecasters predicted that it would strike Houston, Texas, the location of many major oil refineries that survived Katrina, leading to additional spikes in oil prices before the predictions changed. Additionally, as the storm churned in the , forecasters predicted that it would strike , , the location of many major oil refineries that survived , leading to additional spikes in oil prices before the predictions changed.
204 houston In Georgia, Governor Sonny Perdue declared "snow days" on September 26 and September 27, 2005, at all Georgia public schools to conserve fuel for school buses in anticipation of Rita's impact. In  Governor   declared "snow " on   and    at all  public schools to conserve fuel for school buses in anticipation of 's impact.
205 houston However, as the storm veered away from Houston shortly before landfall, damage to refining capacity was not as great as feared. However, as the storm veered away from  shortly before landfall, damage to refining capacity was not as great as feared.
206 houston Hurricane Rita formed as a tropical storm over the Turks and Caicos Islands on September 18. Hurricane Rita formed as a tropical storm over the  and   on  .
207 houston The storm reached Category 2 intensity as it moved south of the Florida Keys on September 20. The storm reached Category  intensity as it moved south of the   on  0.
208 houston Rapid intensification ensued as Rita moved into the Gulf of Mexico, and Rita became a Category 5 hurricane on September 21, becoming the third (now fourth) most intense hurricane ever recorded in the Atlantic Basin. Rapid intensification ensued as  moved into the   , and  became a Category  hurricane on  , becoming the  ( ) most intense hurricane ever recorded in the  .
209 houston Rita made landfall near the Texas-Louisiana border on September 24. made landfall near the  border on  .
210 houston Major flooding was reported in Port Arthur and Beaumont, Texas, while Cameron and Calcasieu Parishes in Louisiana were devastated. Major flooding was reported in   and , , while  and   in  were devastated.
211 houston Offshore oil platforms throughout Rita's path also suffered significant damage. Offshore oil platforms throughout 's path also suffered significant damage.
212 houston Six people are confirmed dead from Rita's direct effects, and total damage from the storm is estimated at about $10 billion (2005 USD; $  USD). people are confirmed dead from 's direct effects, and total damage from the storm is estimated at about $10 billion ( USD; $  USD).
213 houston One hundred and thirteen indirect deaths have been reported, mostly from the exodus from Houston, Texas and surrounding counties. indirect deaths have been reported, mostly from the exodus from ,   surrounding counties.
214 houston State Senator Sharon Erickson Ropes stated after initial flooding, "This is the worst disaster that's hit southeast Minnesota in a lifetime." State Senator    stated after initial flooding, "This is the worst disaster that's hit southeast  in a lifetime."
215 houston Four thousand two hundred homes were damaged or destroyed in the state, and seven deaths were reported. homes were damaged or destroyed in the state, and  deaths were reported.
216 houston It is estimated that there has been $67 million in damage. It is estimated that there has been $67 million in damage.
217 houston Dodge, Fillmore, Houston, Olmsted, Steele, Wabasha, and Winona counties were declared federal disaster areas. Dodge, Fillmore, , Olmsted, , , and  counties were declared federal disaster areas.
218 houston Southeast Minnesota and southwestern Wisconsin are in the Driftless Area, which was not covered by the last glaciation, and therefore is not covered by deep layers of glacial till. and southwestern  are in the  , which was not covered by the last glaciation, and therefore is not covered by deep layers of glacial till.
219 houston The soils therefore are thin and less able to retain water; they lie atop porous rock into and through which surface waters can rapidly drain into the water table. The soils therefore are thin and less able to retain water; they lie atop porous rock into and through which surface waters can rapidly drain into the water table.
220 houston The highly dissected topography, characterized by steep hills and bluffs and deep coulees, gives steep gradients to the drainage and makes streams highly erosive. The highly dissected topography, characterized by steep hills and bluffs and deep coulees, gives steep gradients to the drainage and makes streams highly erosive.
221 houston As the rains far exceeded the absorption rate  of 1.5 inches (3.8 cm) in six hours, flash floods rapidly overflowed the water courses and spread across the valley floors. As the rains far exceeded the absorption rate  of  inches ( cm) in  , flash floods rapidly overflowed the water courses and spread across the valley floors.
222 houston The towns of Stockton, Houston, Elba, Minnesota City, and portions of Winona, on the Mississippi River, were evacuated. The towns of , , ,  , and portions of , on the  , were evacuated.
223 houston Citizens were moved to Saint Mary's University in Winona, Lewiston, and Caledonia, Minnesota. Citizens were moved to Sat 's   Wona, , and , Mnesota.
224 houston Massive bluffs gave way in Brownsville and several homes were completely washed away. Massive bluffs gave way in  and several homes were completely washed away.
225 houston Governor Tim Pawlenty ordered 240 National Guard soldiers to help and declared a state of emergency in six counties. Governor   ordered    soldiers to help and declared a state of emergency in  counties.
226 houston The Minnesota Army National Guard soldiers guarded communities that were cleared out after the flooding early August 19. The     soldiers guarded communities that were cleared out after the flooding   .
227 houston The Army Corps of Engineers opened up the floodgates on the rising Root River to release some of the water creating pressure on the dike in Houston. The     opened up the floodgates on the rising   to release some  the water creating pressure on the dike in .
228 houston As Ike crossed Cuba on September 8 it weakened to a Category 1 hurricane and emerged into the Caribbean Sea, where it moved along or just off of the southern coast of Cuba. As  crossed  on   it weakened to a Category  hurricane and emerged into the  , where it moved along or just off of the southern coast of .
229 houston Ike killed 7 people as it traversed nearly the entirety of Cuba. killed  people as it traversed nearly the entirety of .
230 houston It crossed into the Gulf of Mexico on September 9 and ballooned in size. It crossed into the Gulf of  on   and ballooned in size.
231 houston Ike maintained a double eyewall structure across most of the Gulf of Mexico and continued to expand in size. maintained a double eyewall structure across most  the    and continued to expand in size.
232 houston It made landfall on Galveston Island on September 13 as a strong Category 2 hurricane, but its large size brought storm surge of over  from Galveston Island eastward into southern Louisiana. It made landfall on   on   as a strong Category  hurricane, but its large size brought storm surge of over  from   eastward into southern .
233 houston The Bolivar Peninsula was worst affected by the surge, while Galveston Island (where waves topped the seawall) and the Port Arthur areas also saw extensive damage. The   was worst affected by the surge, while   (where waves topped the seawall) and the Port Arthur areas also saw extensive damage.
234 houston Power was knocked out to most of the Houston area and windows were blown out of skyscrapers in downtown Houston. was knocked out to most of the  area and windows were blown out of skyscrapers in downtown .
235 houston As Ike moved inland, it brought extensive flooding and wind damage throughout the Midwest and as far north as Pennsylvania. As  moved inland, it brought extensive flooding and wind damage throughout the  and as far north as .
236 houston It became extratropical on September 14. It became extratropical on  .
237 houston Both the Astros and the Cubs were also involved in a rare "rain-in" due to Hurricane Ike postponing the first two games of their three-game series on September 12 and 13; the city of Houston had been evacuated so they were not able to play at the retractable-roof Minute Maid Park. Both   and   were also involved in a rare "rain-in" due to Hurricane Ike postponing    games of ir three-game series on   and ;  city of  had been evacuated so y were not able to play at    Maid Park.
238 houston The last rain-in was on June 15, 1976 when the Astros' game at the Astrodome against the Pittsburgh Pirates was called due to heavy flooding in the Houston area. The last rain-in was on    when the ' game at the Astrodome against the   was called due to heavy flooding in the  area.
239 houston Two of the games were played at Miller Park in Milwaukee on September 14 and 15th, the remaining game was canceled outright, one of three games that would be outright canceled, the first being the Oakland Athletics scheduled to play the Orioles on September 7; however, the game was switched due to a conflict with the Baltimore Ravens' NFL season opener against the Cincinnati Bengals. of the games were played at   in  on   and , the remaining game was canceled outright,  of  games that would be outright canceled, the  being the   scheduled to play the  on  ; however, the game was switched due to a conflict with the  '  season opener against the  .
240 houston This game was moved to September 6 as part of a day/night doubleheader. This game was moved to   as part of a day/night doubleheader.
241 houston However, the remnants of Hurricane Hanna called off the afternoon game, and because both teams were not in the pennant races, the game was not made up, in spite of the fact that both teams still had two common off days. However, the remnants of Hurricane  called off the afternoon game, and because both teams were not in the pennant races, the game was not made up, in spite of the fact that both teams still had  common off .
242 houston With the landfall of Hurricane Gustav on the U.S. Gulf Coast, the White House canceled the planned appearances of President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney. With the landfall of Hurricane Gustav on the   , the White House canceled the planned appearances of President  and Vice President  .
243 houston Governors Bobby Jindal of Louisiana and Rick Perry of Texas skipped the convention to remain in their states during the hurricane's landfall. Governors   of  and   of  skipped the convention to remain in their states during the hurricane's landfall.
244 houston The Monday, September 1, 2008, schedule was compressed to two hours from seven. schedule was compressed to   from .
245 houston McCain called on the party to reduce partisan activities ahead of the hurricane's arrival. called on the party to reduce partisan activities ahead of the hurricane's arrival.
246 houston The Republican Party chartered a DC-9 to fly convention delegates representing the affected areas back home to their families. The   chartered a DC-9 to fly convention delegates representing the affected areas back home to their families.
247 houston The last time a major hurricane struck in a Presidential-election year was Hurricane Andrew in 1992, which hit South Florida four days after the Republican Convention in Houston, Texas. The last time a major hurricane struck in a Presidential-election  was Hurricane Andrew in , which hit     after the   in , .
248 houston The 1943 Surprise Hurricane, which struck Houston, Texas during World War II, marked the first intentional meteorological flight into a hurricane. The  Surprise Hurricane, which struck ,  during   , marked the  intentional meteorological flight into a hurricane.
249 houston That summer, British pilots being trained as instrument instructor pilots at Bryan Field heard that the school was evacuating its AT-6 Texan trainers in the face of the oncoming hurricane, and began teasing their instructors about the airworthiness of the aircraft. That ,  pilots being trained as instrument instructor pilots at   heard that the school was evacuating its   trainers in the face of the oncoming hurricane, and began teasing their instructors about the airworthiness of the aircraft.
250 houston School commander USAAF Col. School commander USAAF Col.
251 houston Joseph B. Duckworth bet his RAF students that he could safely fly into the storm and return. bet his  students that he could safely fly into the storm and return.
252 houston He took out one of the trainers with 2nd Lt. Ralph M. O'Hair navigating and flew it straight into the eye of the storm. He took out  of the trainers with  Lt.    navigating and flew it straight into the eye of the storm.
253 houston After he returned safely, the base's only weather officer, 1st Lt. William H. Jones-Burdick, took over the navigator's seat and Col. Duckworth flew into the storm (now over land) a second time, this time recording their observations and measuring temperatures within the storm. After he returned sfely, the bse's only wether officer,  Lt.   , took over the nvigtor's set nd Col.  flew into the storm ( over lnd)   time, this time recording their observtions nd mesuring tempertures within the storm.
254 houston The flights demonstrated that hurricane reconnaissance flights were feasible, and further flights continued on an irregular basis. The flights demonstrated that hurricane reconnaissance flights were feasible, and further flights continued on an irregular basis.
255 houston Schwartz became a lobbyist and legislative consultant on local, state and national issues. became a lobbyist and legislative consultant on local, state and national issues.
256 houston He has appeared in the PBS documentary "Vote For Me: Politics in America" (1996) and "Bush's Brain" (2006). He has appeared in the  documentary "Vote For Me: Politics in " () and "'s Brain" ().
257 houston Between 1996 and 2005, he taught Legislation and Coastal Zone Management Law at the University of Houston Law Center as an adjunct professor. Between  and , he taught Legislation and Coastal Zone Management  at the      as an adjunct pressor.
258 houston In 2009, he began teaching Coastal and Ocean Law at the University of Texas School of Law. In , he began teaching Coastal and Ocean  at the      .
259 houston In September 2008, he was quoted in The New York Times on the subject of damage to Galveston from Hurricane Ike and other hurricanes over the years. In  , he was quoted in     on  subject of damage to  from Hurricane Ike and or hurricanes over  .
260 houston The 1900 Galveston hurricane that devastated Galveston, he said, was a “message from God.” The   hurricane that devastated , he said, was a “message from God.”
261 houston He explained: “God’s message was, ‘man wasn’t meant to live on no damned island.’” He explained: “God’s message was, ‘man wasn’t meant to live on no damned island.’”
262 houston In an Associated Press story after Hurricane Ike about the fact that the 1959 Texas Open Beaches Act, a state law protecting public access to beaches might cause some Galveston-area homes to be seized by the state, Schwartz said, ""We're talking about damn fools that have built houses on the edge of the sea for as long as man could remember and against every advice anyone has given." In an   story after   about the fact that the     , a state law protecting public access to beaches might cause some  homes to be seized by the state,  said, ""We're talking about damn fools that have built houses on the edge of the sea for as long as man could remember and against every advice anyone has given."
263 houston That story, in turn, led to an attack on Schwartz by radio commentator Rush Limbaugh, who said, "You know, folks, it’s one thing to be smacked by a natural disaster; it’s quite another to have to be smacked around by the government that you’re looking to for help." That story, in turn, led to an attack on  by radio commentator  , who said, "You know, folks, it’s  thing to be smacked by a natural disaster; it’s quite another to have to be smacked around by the government that you’re looking to for help."
264 houston His oral history for the Texas Legacy Project is featured on the project's site  and in a 2010 book published from those interviews. His oral history for the    is featured on the project's site  and in a  book published from those interviews.
265 houston "Wednesday, August 31". "  ".
266 houston Hamid and Mansell wake up from a long night on the roof of Hamid's maintenance shed. and  wake up from a long night on the roof of 's maintenance shed.
267 houston They spend the day wading through the chest-high waters, refusing a boat ride out of the flooded sections of the city. They spend   wading through  chest-high waters, refusing a boat ride out of  flooded sections of  city.
268 houston Denise and her family, having momentarily escaped the flooding, await transport out of the flooded city. and her family, having momentarily escaped the flooding, await transport out of the flooded city.
269 houston What they find instead is a van to the Convention Center. What they find instead is a van to the Convention Center.
270 houston In Houston, Leo and Michelle are dismayed to discover that their neighborhood took over five feet of water. In ,  and  are dismayed to discover that their neighborhood took over  feet of water.
271 houston The Doctor makes the rounds of the French Quarter, administering aid where needed. The Doctor makes  rounds of   , administering aid where needed.
272 houston Hamid and Mansell deliver much-needed water to a trapped neighbor. and  deliver much-needed water to a trapped neighbor.
273 houston And in Tallahassee, Kevin sees footage of the flooding and realizes he won’t be returning home any time soon. And in ,  sees footage of the flooding and realizes he won’t be returning home any time soon.
274 houston Denise arrive at the Convention Center to find it completely without vital services, and filled with abandoned people. arrive at the   to find it completely without vital services, and filled with abandoned people.
275 houston Mansell narrowly avoids being crushed by a bobbing refrigerator case. narrowly avoids being crushed by a bobbing refrigerator case.
276 houston Mansell's asthma and the high water makes Hamid face the fact that they probably should evacuate the flooded city. 's asthma and the high water makes  face the fact that they probably should evacuate the flooded city.
277 houston In Houston, Leo & Michelle discuss what their next move should be. In ,    discuss what their next move should be.
278 houston And in Tallahassee, Kevin learns that he and his younger brother will be sent off to California to attend school there. And in ,  learns that he and his younger brother will be sent off to  to attend school there.
279 houston "Monday, August 29". "  ".
280 houston As the storm’s pre-winds batter New Orleans, The Doctor’s hurricane party is in full swing. As the storm’s pre-winds batter  , The Doctor’s hurricane party is in full swing.
281 houston Hamid and Mansell hunker down at the store. and  hunker down at the store.
282 houston When the full force of the hurricane hits, Denise learns just what a mistake it was to forsake the refuge of the hospital for her apartment. When the full force of the hurricane hits,  learns just what a mistake it was to forsake the refuge of the hospital for her apartment.
283 houston Her apartment is shaken repeatedly by the storm, the ceiling in the bedroom comes down, and she spends the night holding onto a bed wedged in the hallway. Her apartment is shaken repeatedly by the storm, the ceiling in the bedroom comes down, and she spends the night holding onto a bed wedged in the hallway.
284 houston We also check in on Kevin and his family in Tallahassee, and Leo and Michelle in Houston. We also check in on  and his family in , and  and  in .
285 houston No one is yet aware that the levees have been breached. No  is yet aware that the levees have been breached.
286 houston Going back in time to more than a week before the storm, readers meet the protagonists in their pre-Katrina lives. Going bck in time to     before the storm, reders meet the protgonists in their pre-Ktrin lives.
287 houston Then in the days leading up to the hurricane, the characters learn about the approaching monster storm. Then in   leading up to  hurricane,  characters learn about  approaching monster storm.
288 houston On the Saturday before the hurricane, Leo tracks the storm on his computer as he and Michelle decide whether to evacuate. On the   the hurricane,  tracks the storm on his computer as he and  decide whether to evacuate.
289 houston Meanwhile, The Doctor makes plans to host some friends at his French Quarter home for a “hurricane party.” Meanwhile, The Doctor makes plans to host some friends at his  Quarter home for a “hurricane party.”
290 houston On Sunday, August 28, 2005, one day before Katrina, Hamid sends his wife and family off to safety in Houston. On       before   sends his wife and family off to safety in .
291 houston Kevin helps his family prepare to evacuate to Tallahassee. helps his family prepare to evacuate to .
292 houston Denise goes with her niece and grandniece to take shelter at the hospital where her mother works, but when they are turned away from a private room due to overcrowding, she angrily returns to her apartment alone. goes with her niece and grandniece to take shelter at the hospital where her mother works, but when they are turned away from a private room due to overcrowding, she angrily returns to her apartment alone.
293 houston Leo and Michelle spend hours in bumper-to-bumper traffic to Houston, while Kevin and his family do the same en route to Tallahassee. and  spend  in bumper-to-bumper traffic to , while  and his family do the same en route to .
294 houston Meanwhile, Hamid and Mansell excitedly outfit themselves for the storm at Hamid’s store. Meanwhile,  and  excitedly outfit themselves for the storm at ’s store.
295 houston In 2005, Alief became home to many Hurricane Katrina evacuees. In ,  became home to many Hurricane  evacuees.
296 houston More than 3,000 evacuees enrolled in Alief ISD schools. More than  evacuees enrolled in   schools.
297 houston Alief ISD spent $12 million to accommodate Hurricane Katrina evacuees in 2005. Alief ISD spent $12 million to accommodate Hurricane  evacuees in .
298 houston The United States government promised to reimburse the district, but in 2006 Alief had not yet received the money. The   government promised to reimburse the district, but in  Alief had not yet received the money.
299 houston Many of the students who were displaced by the hurricane were academically behind their Texas peers. Many of the students who were displaced by the hurricane were academically behind their  peers.
300 houston In 2006, former United States President George H. W. Bush and Houston Mayor Bill White led a fundraising campaign to help Alief ISD and other districts pay for educating the displaced students. In , former   President     and  Mayor   led a fundraising campaign to help   and other districts pay for educating the displaced students.
301 houston The influx of evacuees caused an escalation of gang violence. The influx of evacuees caused an escalation of gang violence.
302 houston Murders in Houston increased by 29% in 2005. Murders in  increased by 29% in .
303 houston The AIU Houston building was severely damaged by Hurricane Ike in September 2008. The   building was severely damaged by Hurricane Ike in  .
304 houston It was remodeled, and a grand re-opening celebration occurred in February 2009. It was remodeled, and a grand re-opening celebration occurred in  .
305 houston Auchan's second Greater Houston location opened in southeast Houston in September 2000. 's  Greater  location opened in southeast  in  .
306 houston In January 2003 Auchan announced that both of its U.S. stores were making losses and were going to be closed; Auchan stated that it was instead going to concentrate its expansion in Asia and Europe. In    announced that both of its  stores were making losses and were going to be closed;  stated that it was instead going to concentrate its expansion in  and .
307 houston Auchan U.S.A. sold its first Houston location to Ho Enterprises. sold its   location to Ho Enterprises.
308 houston Lewis Food Town occupied about  of the space, with the rest of the space taken by other tenants. occupied about  of the space, with the rest of the space taken by other tenants.
309 houston The second remains unoccupied, but was used as a shelter for Hurricane Katrina victims in 2005 and Hurricane Ike victims in 2008 due to its large space. The  remains unoccupied, but was used as a shelter for Hurricane  victims in  and Hurricane Ike victims in  due to its large space.
310 houston While visiting a Houston relief center for people displaced by Hurricane Katrina, Bush told the radio program "Marketplace", Almost everyone I've talked to says, 'We're gonna move to Houston.' What I'm hearing, which is sort of scary, is they all want to stay in Texas... Everybody is so overwhelmed by the hospitality, and so many of the people in the arenas here, you know, were underprivileged anyway, so this (as she chuckles slightly) is working very well for them. While visiting a  relief center for people displaced by Hurricane ,  told the radio program "Marketplace", Almost everyone I've talked to says, 'We're gonna move to .'What I'm hearing, which is sort of scary, is they all want to stay in ... Everybody is so overwhelmed by the hospitality, and so many of the people in the arenas here, you know, were underprivileged anyway, so this (as she chuckles slightly) is working very well for them.
311 houston In 1961, Hurricane Carla devastated the Texas Gulf Coast, flooding Brownwood and ending any new development in the area. In , Hurricane  devastated the   , flooding  and ending any new development in the area.
312 houston Afterwards, subsidence became a serious problem as industrial and municipal water users along the Houston Ship Channel and in the general Houston area pumped out groundwater faster than natural forces could replenish the aquifer(s). Afterwards, subsidence became a serious problem as industrial and municipal water users along the    and in the general  area pumped out groundwater faster than natural forces could replenish the aquifer(s).
313 houston Thus, during the 1970s and 1980s, much of the Texan Gulf Coast (including Brownwood) sank a total of 10 to . Thus, during   and , much of     (including ) sank a total of  to .
314 houston Brownwood, which had previously been high and dry, was repeatedly inundated by high tides and storms. , which had  been high and dry, was repeatedly inundated by high tides and storms.
315 houston Summer temperatures typically have highs near  though higher temperatures are not uncommon. temperatures typically have highs near  though higher temperatures are not uncommon.
316 houston The city's proximity to the bay and the winds that it generates moderate the area's temperatures and ease the effects of the humidity creating a more pleasant climate than inland communities like Houston. The city's proximity to the bay and the winds that it generates moderate the area's temperatures and ease the effects of the humidity creating a more pleasant climate than inland communities like .
317 houston Winters in the area are temperate with typical January high of  and lows are near . in the area are temperate with typical  high of  and lows are near .
318 houston Snowfall is rare. Snowfall is rare.
319 houston Annual rainfall averages exceed . Annual rainfall averages exceed .
320 houston Hurricanes are a substantial concern during the fall season. Hurricanes are a substantial concern during the  season.
321 houston Though Galveston Island and the Bolivar Peninsula provide some shielding, Baytown still faces more danger than Houston and other inland communities, particularly because of storm surge as well as severe land subsidence in some low-lying areas of town due to excess pumping of groundwater in the 1960s (see Brownwood subdivision)  by area refineries and municipalities. Though   and    provide some shielding,  still faces more danger than  and or inland communities, particularly because of storm surge as well as severe land subsidence in some low-lying areas of town due to excess pumping of groundwater in   (see  subdivision)  by area refineries and municipalities.
322 houston In August 2005, Hurricane Katrina made landfall on the Louisiana coast and devastated the city of New Orleans. In  , Hurricane Katrina made landfall on the  coast and devastated the city of  .
323 houston As a result, the company temporarily located to Houston, Texas where it successfully recovered from the loss due to the hurricane. As a result, the company temporarily located to ,  where it successfully recovered from the loss due to the hurricane.
324 houston Following hurricane Katrina, Bennett & Associates formally moved their headquarters to Houston, Texas while still retaining the original office in New Orleans. Following hurricane     formally moved their headquarters to   while still retaining the original office in  .
325 houston Bill served in the U.S. Navy, where he served as an on-board meteorologist with the Hurricane Hunters. served in the  , where he served as an on-board meteorologist with the Hurricane Hunters.
326 houston He began his weather service career in 1977 with the National Weather Service test and evaluation division in Sterling, Virginia. He began his weather service career in  with the    test and evaluation division in , .
327 houston He served as a forecaster in the Fort Worth and San Antonio, Texas offices before becoming the severe thunderstorm and flash flood program leader at the National Weather Service headquarters in Silver Spring, Maryland. He served as a forecaster in the   and  ,  offices before becoming the severe thunderstorm and flash flood program leader at the    headquarters in Silver , .
328 houston Read was appointed to direct the Houston/Galveston weather forecast office in 1992 and led it through the National Weather Service modernization and restructuring program of the mid 1990s. Read was appointed to direct the Houston/Galveston weather forecast office in  and led it through the    modernization and restructuring program of the mid .
329 houston He was also part of the Hurricane Liaison Team at the National Hurricane Center in Miami when Hurricane Isabel came ashore on the Outer Banks of North Carolina in September 2003. He was also part of the  Liaison Team at the    in  when   came ashore on the Outer Banks of   in  .
330 houston Bill Read is now the director of its Tropical Prediction Center, which includes the National Hurricane Center and two other divisions, in Miami, Florida. is  the director of its Tropical Prediction Center, which includes the National Hurricane Center and  other divisions, in , .
331 houston Read previously served as the center’s acting deputy director between August 2007 and January 2008. Read  served as the center’s acting deputy director between   and  .
332 houston Just weeks after Hurricane Katrina, it looked as though Houston would become the target of Hurricane Rita. Just  after Hurricane Katrina, it looked as though  would become the target of Hurricane Rita.
333 houston Bill White mobilized the citizens of Houston to evacuate. mobilized the citizens of  to evacuate.
334 houston During a series of press conferences, Mayor White and County Judge Robert Eckels instructed Houstonians on when to evacuate. During a series of press conferences, Mayor White and County Judge   instructed  on when to evacuate.
335 houston Officials employed a strategy that called for the evacuation of flood prone areas first. Officials employed a strategy that called for the evacuation of flood prone areas .
336 houston This evacuation, however, led to many problems as it caused multi-hour backups on all freeways in Houston. This evacuation, however, led to many problems as it caused multi-hour backups on all freeways in .
337 houston This prompted White to later lead an evacuation plan reform for Houston. This prompted  to later lead an evacuation plan reform for .
338 houston In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, thousands of residents of New Orleans were displaced. In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, thousands of residents of   were displaced.
339 houston Bill White offered refuge for the victims in the Astrodome, the George R. Brown Convention Center, and a large building formerly housing an Auchan location. offered refuge for the victims in the Astrodome, the     , and a large building formerly housing an Auchan location.
340 houston He also helped set up programs to help them find long-term housing, job placement, and education within Houston. He also helped set up programs to help them find long-term housing, job placement, and education within .
341 houston He was later awarded the John F. Kennedy Profile in Courage Award for his service in the light of this catastrophe. He was later awarded the    Profile in Courage Award for his service in the light of this catastrophe.
342 houston The environment in southeast Texas is quite different from the environment of East Tennessee. The environment in southeast  is quite different from the environment of  .
343 houston East Tennessee's mean annual temperature is 67 °F (19 °C). 's mean annual temperature is  F ( C).
344 houston The Houston area's mean annual temperature is 75 °F (23 °C). The  area's mean annual temperature is  F ( C).
345 houston Temperature, along with many other factors, affect the decomposition process, and therefore difference in temperature will produce different decomposition results. Temperature, along with many other factors, affect the decomposition process, and therefore difference in temperature will produce different decomposition results.
346 houston Due to the rapid growth of the Greater Houston area (which includes Galveston County), the commute time required to board the ferry has rapidly increased (during the summer the wait can be up to two hours), which slows emergency response times (there are few emergency services, and no hospitals, on the peninsula, thus requiring trips to Galveston). Due  the rapid growth of the Greater  area (which includes  ), the commute time required  board the ferry has rapidly increased (during the  the wait can be    ), which slows emergency response times (there are few emergency services, and no hospitals, on the peninsula, thus requiring trips  ).
347 houston Maintenance costs for the ferry crossing have risen to approximately $12 million per year, a 200 percent increase in the last eight years alone. Maintenance costs for  ferry crossing have risen to approximately $12 million per , a 200 percent increase in    s alone.
348 houston The ferry is unusable in the event a tropical storm or hurricane approaches the area, thus forcing evacuating traffic onto the other two egresses from the island (Interstate 45 and a two-lane toll bridge on the west end of the island), and projected ship traffic in Galveston Bay (including the Houston Ship Channel) is expected to increase dramatically in the coming years. The ferry is unusable in  event a tropical storm or hurricane approaches  area, thus forcing evacuating traffic onto  or  egresses from  island (Interstate  and a -lane toll bridge on  west end of  island), and projected ship traffic in   (including    ) is expected to increase dramatically in   .
349 houston The  Buffalo Bayou watershed is central to the drainage of Houston and Harris County. The  Buffalo Bayou watershed is central to the drainage of  and  .
350 houston Lying over relatively impervious soils and very flat topography, the bayou has extensive natural floodplains, as do most Gulf coastal rivers and streams. Lying over relatively impervious soils and very flat topography, the bayou has extensive natural floodplains, as do most Gulf coastal rivers and streams.
351 houston The gradual urbanization of the watershed, starting with the founding of the city in 1836 and accelerating in the latter half of the twentieth century, placed thousands of people in the natural floodplains. The gradual urbanization   watershed, starting with  founding   city in  and accelerating in       , placed thousands  people in  natural floodplains.
352 houston At the same time, changes to the watershed due to urbanization increased the level and intensity of flood events. At the same time, changes to the watershed due to urbanization increased the level and intensity of flood events.
353 houston In 2009, Chevron announced an oil discovery at the Buckskin prospect in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico about 190 miles southeast of Houston. In ,  announced an oil discovery at the  prospect in the deepwater    about  miles southeast  .
354 houston The well is located in approximately 6,920 feet of water and was drilled to a depth of 29,404 feet. The well is located in approximately  feet of water and was drilled to a depth of  feet.
355 houston In 2011, the company announced an oil discovery at the Moccasin prospect in the deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico. In , the company announced an oil discovery at the Moccasin prospect in the deepwater    .
356 houston The well is located approximately 216 miles off the Louisiana coast in 6,759 feet of water and was drilled to a depth of 31,545 feet. The well is located approximately  miles off the  coast in  feet of water and was drilled to a depth of  feet.
357 houston In addition to its deepwater Gulf of Mexico activities, Chevron is one of the largest producers of oil and natural gas on the Gulf of Mexico shelf. In addition to its deepwater    activities,  is   the largest producers  oil and natural gas on the    shelf.
358 houston In 1984 Gulf Coast Bible College announced it was leaving Houston and moving to Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. In      announced it was leaving  and moving to  , .
359 houston Odus Eubank, the vice president for academic affairs, told the president of Gulf Coast in September 1984 that he was not going to Oklahoma. , the vice president for academic affairs, told the president of   in   that he was not going to .
360 houston In the northern hemisphere spring of the following year, Eubank resigned. In  norrn hemisphere     ,  resigned.
361 houston The school opened in June 1985 for a summer session. The school opened in   for a  session.
362 houston Its full autumn session began in September of that year. Its full  session began in  of that .
363 houston It anticipated having about 100 students. It anticipated having about  students.
364 houston Eubank said that most of the students at Christian College will be new students and not existing Gulf Coast students. said that most of the students at   will be new students and not existing Gulf Coast students.
365 houston There were many predictions of hurricane risk in New Orleans before Hurricane Katrina in August, 2005. There were many predictions of hurricane risk in   before Hurricane  in  .
366 houston In 2001, the "Houston Chronicle" published a story which predicted that a severe hurricane striking New Orleans, "would strand 250,000 people or more, and probably kill one of 10 left behind as the city drowned under  of water. In , the " " published a story which predicted that a severe hurricane striking  , "would strand  people or more, and probably kill  of  left behind as the city drowned under  of water.
367 houston Thousands of refugees could land in Houston." Thousands of refugees could land in ."
368 houston Many concerns also focused around the fact that the city's levee system was only designed for hurricanes of no greater intensity than category 3. Many concerns also focused around the fact that the city's levee system was only designed for hurricanes of no greater intensity than category .
369 houston As it turned out, Katrina was Category 3 when it made landfall and most of New Orleans experienced Category 1 or 2 strength winds. As it turned out,  was Category  when it made landfall and most of   experienced Category  or  strength winds.
370 houston However, due to the slow moving nature of the storm in its pass over New Orleans, several floodwalls lining the shipping and drainage canals in New Orleans collapsed and the resulting flood water from Lake Ponchartrain inundated the city within the two days following the storm, causing costly damage to buildings and resulting in many deaths. However, due to  slow moving nature of  storm in its pass over  , several floodwalls lining  shipping and drainage canals in   collapsed and  resulting flood water from   inundated  city within    following  storm, causing costly damage to buildings and resulting in many deaths.
371 houston Beaumonters dealt with Tropical Storm Allison in 2001. Beaumonters dealt with Tropical Storm Allison in .
372 houston Beaumont and the vicinity did not experience the damage and destruction that Houston got, as only  to  of rain fell near Beaumont. and the vicinity did not experience the damage and destruction that  got, as only  to  of rain fell near .
373 houston Homes are still abandoned due to massive flooding that took place. Homes are still abandoned due to massive flooding that took place.
374 houston Snow is almost unheard of in Houston. Snow is almost unheard of in .
375 houston When it does occur, it almost invariably melts immediately on the ground with light accumulation on roofs and raised surfaces. When it does occur, it almost invariably melts immediately on the ground with light accumulation on roofs and raised surfaces.
376 houston Since 1895, it has only snowed thirty five times in Houston, about twice every seven years on average. Since , it has only snowed   times in , about twice every seven years on average.
377 houston Such an average is misleading, however, since snow generally only falls once every 10 years. Such an average is misleading, however, since snow generally only falls  every 10 years.
378 houston In recent years, snowfall has become much more frequent than normal and multiple snowfall records have been broken. In  , snowfall has become much more frequent than normal and multiple snowfall records have been broken.
379 houston Due to its very mild winters, Houston has almost no ice, snow or freezes. Due to its very mild winters,  has almost no ice, snow or freezes.
380 houston There are usually a few days of freezing (<32F) temperatures each year. There re usully   dys of freezing (<) tempertures ech yer.
381 houston Ice, when it occurs on roads, is cause to shut the entire city down. Ice, when it occurs on roads, is cause to shut the entire city down.
382 houston Unlike Dallas, Houston is not in Tornado Alley. Unlike ,  is not in Tornado Alley.
383 houston Smaller tornadoes can occur during severe weather. Smaller tornadoes can occur during severe weather.
384 houston They are most likely to be found along frontal boundaries of an air mass during the spring months. They are most likely to be found along frontal boundaries of an air mass during the  .
385 houston Tornadoes in Houston usually measure a weak F1 on the old Fujita scale, and cause light to moderate damage to well-constructed buildings. Tornadoes in  usually measure a weak F1 on the old  scale, and cause light to moderate damage to well-constructed buildings.
386 houston The strongest recorded tornado in Houston history was an F4 on November 21, 1992, part of a large outbreak of tornadoes. The strongest recorded tornado in  history was an F4 on    part of a large outbreak of tornadoes.
387 houston Flooding is a recurring problem in Houston. Flooding is a recurring problem in .
388 houston It is especially severe in low-lying areas on the far east end of town along the San Jacinto river. It is especially severe in low-lying areas on the far east end of town along the   river.
389 houston The flat wetlands and paved-over coastal prairie around Houston drains slowly and easily floods. The flat wetlands and paved-over coastal prairie around  drains slowly and easily floods.
390 houston The area is drained by a network of bayous (small, slow-moving rivers; often dredged and enlarged to increase volume) and man-made drainage ditches (usually dry most of the year). The area is drained by a network of bayous (small, slow-moving rivers; often dredged and enlarged to increase volume) and man-made drainage ditches (usually dry most of  ).
391 houston Due to the ubiquity of overdevelopment and the huge amounts of concrete, drainage is insufficient during times of especially heavy rainfall. Due to the ubiquity of overdevelopment and the huge amounts of concrete, drainage is insufficient during times of especially heavy rainfall.
392 houston In fall, cool fronts bring in rainstorms and flooding is not uncommon. In , cool fronts bring in rainstorms and flooding is not uncommon.
393 houston This might flood certain low-lying intersections, but doesn't generally affect citizens or the business of the city. This might flood certain low-lying intersections, but doesn't generally affect citizens or the business of the city.
394 houston However, occasionally very heavy thunderstorms dump so much water on the city that widespread congestion and even property damage in low-lying areas results. However, occasionally very heavy thunderstorms dump so much water on the city that widespread congestion and even property damage in low-lying areas results.
395 houston Tropical Storm Allison in 2001 was the most recent bad flooding incident, and it was so severe that many parts of town that had never flooded before were flooded seriously. Tropical Storm  in  was the most recent bad flooding incident, and it was so severe that many parts of town that had never flooded before were flooded seriously.
396 houston Interstate 10 near downtown, which is below grade, was covered by over 10 feet of water. Interstate  near downtown, which is below grade, was covered by over  feet of water.
397 houston Hurricane Ike made landfall near Galveston, Texas in September 2008. Hurricane Ike made landfall near ,  in  .
398 houston Although only a category 2 storm (out of 5), Ike brought moderate rain but high winds for an unusually long duration (upwards of nine hours). Although only a category  storm (out of ),  brought moderate rain but high winds for an unusually long duration (upwards of  ).
399 houston The roof of Reliant Stadium (home of the Houston Texans NFL team) was damaged and windows were blown out of several highrise buildings in downtown Houston. The roof of Reliant Stadium (home of the    team) was damaged and windows were blown out of several highrise buildings in downtown .
400 houston Storm surge affected areas around Galveston Bay, stripping some coastal islands of homes. Storm surge affected areas around  , stripping some coastal islands of homes.
401 houston Galveston Island was devastated, looking much like a war zone. was devastated, looking much like a war zone.
402 houston Non-emergency access to the island was prohited for many weeks. Non-emergency access to the island was prohited for many .
403 houston Hurricane Ike left ninety percent of people in the Houston Area without power. left ninety percent of people in the   without power.
404 houston Never before had the city experienced such widespread or long-term power outage: no air conditioning, no refrigeration, no lights, no phones. Never before had the city experienced such widespread or long-term power outage: no air conditioning, no refrigeration, no lights, no phones.
405 houston Day-to-day business slowed immensely. Day-to-day business slowed immensely.
406 houston Area grocery stores were stripped bare and sold water and ice for cash by flashlight. Area grocery stores were stripped bare and sold water and ice for cash by flashlight.
407 houston Trucks from around the country brought in emergency supplies, especially water and ice. Trucks from around the country brought in emergency supplies, especially water and ice.
408 houston Most of the city was without power for a week—some for 2 to 3 weeks. Most of the city ws without power for  —some for    s.
409 houston Tropical Storm Erin made landfall in August 2007 with strong rains. Tropical Storm  made landfall in   with strong rains.
410 houston A total of  of rain fell at George Bush Intercontinental Airport on August 16 and many roads and neighborhoods were flooded. A total of  of rain fell at     on   and many roads and neighborhoods were flooded.
411 houston METRO halted its light rail and bus services in view of the effects. METRO halted its light rail and bus services in view of the effects.
412 houston Four deaths in the city were attributed to the storm. deaths in the city were attributed to the storm.
413 houston The Houston Fire Department reported 72 rescue operations. The    reported  rescue operations.
414 houston The most destructive and costly natural disaster in Houston history was Tropical Storm Allison of 2001, which dumped up to  of rain on parts of the city over a 5-day period. The most destructive and costly natural disaster in  history was Tropical Storm Allison of , which dumped up to  of rain on parts of the city over a  period.
415 houston Area flooding was catastrophic and widespread. Area flooding was catastrophic and widespread.
416 houston The storm completely overwhelmed the flood control system and caused 22 deaths in Houston and $6.05 billion (2006 USD) in damage. The storm completely overwhelmed the flood control system and caused  deaths in  and $6.05 billion ( USD) in damage.
417 houston It is the only tropical storm in history to have its name retired. It is the only tropical storm in history to have its name retired.
418 houston In 1837 the Racer's Storm passed just to the south of the town, raising water levels four feet. In  the Racer's Storm passed just to the south of the town, raising water levels  feet.
419 houston The Great Hurricane of 1900 destroyed the nearby (and then much bigger) city of Galveston, which is situated on a barrier island 50 miles southeast of downtown Houston. The Great Hurricane of  destroyed the nearby (and then much bigger) city of , which is situated on a barrier island  miles southeast of downtown .
420 houston That hurricane weakened to a tropical storm by the time it reached Houston. That hurricane weakened to a tropical storm by the time it reached .
421 houston The periphery of Hurricane Carla hit the city in 1961, causing major damage to Houston. The periphery of Hurricane Carla hit the city in , causing major damage to .
422 houston At the time of landfall, Carla was the most powerful tropical system to hit the Texas coast in over 40 years,. At the time of landfall,  was the most powerful tropical system to hit the  coast in over  ,.
423 houston In 1983, the city was struck squarely by Hurricane Alicia, causing one billion dollars damage to the city during a down period in the city's economy. In , the city was struck squarely by Hurricane , causing one billion dollars damage to the city during a down period in the city's economy.
424 houston Because Houston is on the Gulf of Mexico, the city has a small chance of being hit by hurricanes or tropical storms every hurricane season (June through November). Because  is on the   , the city has a small chance  being hit by hurricanes or tropical storms every hurricane season ( through ).
425 houston Houston has occasional severe weather, mostly flooding. has occasional severe weather, mostly flooding.
426 houston Hurricanes that have the potential to landfall bring severe damage to the area. Hurricanes that have the potential to landfall bring severe damage to the area.
427 houston There have been approximately 7 major hurricanes to hit the Galveston and Houston areas in the past 100 years. There have been approximately  major hurricanes to hit   and  areas in    .
428 houston Four have done significant damage to Houston. have done significant damage to .
429 houston Rainfall is the most common form of precipitation in Houston. Rainfall is the most common form of precipitation in .
430 houston The wettest month is June, with  of rain. is , with  of rain.
431 houston On average, Houston sees 30-40 days of rain per year. On average,  sees   of rain per .
432 houston The city receives  of rain in an average year. The city receives  of rain in an average .
433 houston The most precipitation to fall in one year was  which occurred in 1900. The most precipitation to fall in   was  which occurred in .
434 houston Houston has received less than  of rain only once: 17.66 inches in 1917. has received less than  of rain only :  inches in .
435 houston Flash flood warnings are common all year, and due to the flat landscape, heavy rains can be a threat to the city. Flash flood warnings are common all , and due to the flat landscape, heavy rains can be a threat to the city.
436 houston Spring comes with a gradual warm up from winter, lasting from March 20 through May. comes with a gradual warm up from , lasting from    .
437 houston Temperatures are generally not hot yet, averaging from  in the day and  at night. Temperatures are generally not hot yet, averaging from  in   and  at night.
438 houston Spring thunderstorms are not uncommon, often with spectacular lightning shows. thunderstorms are not uncommon, often with spectacular lightning shows.
439 houston This rainfall prompts Houston's 10-month long "growing season" to begin. This rainfall prompts 's  long "growing season" to begin.
440 houston April sees the return of many types of insects, including butterflies and mosquitoes, to return to Houston's warm climate. sees the return of many types of insects, including butterflies and mosquitoes, to return to 's warm climate.
441 houston Snow is extremely unusual in Houston. Snow is extremely unusual in .
442 houston Light snow has fallen approximately 35 times since 1895, more recently on December 4, 2009 and February 23, 2010. Light snow has fallen approximately  times since  more  on    and   .
443 houston Freezing rain, also known as ice storms, are slightly less rare. Freezing rain, also known as ice storms, are slightly less rare.
444 houston The most recent ice storms occurred in 1997 and 2007 as well as on February 4, 2011. The most recent ice storms occurred in  and  as well as on   .
445 houston These storms can be very disruptive since road crews are not equipped to handle such rare events (and motorists are entirely unfamiliar with ice). These storms can be very disruptive since road crews are not equipped to handle such rare events (and motorists are entirely unfamiliar with ice).
446 houston When ice occurs, road and schools are usually closed. When ice occurs, road and schools are usually closed.
447 houston Winters in Houston are very mild and temperate. in  are very mild and temperate.
448 houston While the average high in January, the coldest month, is  and the low , Houston sees an average of 18 days per year of freezing temperatures. While the average high in , the coldest , is  and the low ,  sees an average of   per  of freezing temperatures.
449 houston Cold fronts during the winter drop nighttime lows into the 30s, averaging out at 36°F (2.2°C) but usually above freezing. Cold fronts during the  drop nighttime lows into the , averaging out at F (C) but usually above freezing.
450 houston There usually is a period of about three weeks with what would be considered "winter" weather&mdash;temperatures in the low 30s to mid-40s. There usually is a period of    with what would be considered "" weather&mdash;temperatures in the low  to .
451 houston 'Hard freezes' are uncommon. 'Hard freezes' are uncommon.
452 houston The coldest temperature ever recorded in Houston was  on January 23, 1930. The coldest temperature ever recorded in  was  on   .
453 houston Autumn in Houston is warm, with temperatures averaging in the upper 60s to lower 80s °F (20-28 °C) during the day and in the 50s to lower 60s °F (10-17 °C) at night. in  is warm, with temperatures averaging in  upper 60s to lower  F ( C) during   and in   to lower 60s F ( C) at night.
454 houston Cool fronts that move through the region during the fall can bring rain. Cool fronts that move through the region during the  can bring rain.
455 houston Hurricanes can move into the area from the Gulf of Mexico bringing heavy rains and high winds. Hurricanes can move into the area from the    bringing heavy rains and high winds.
456 houston However, most years see little or no significant hurricane activity. However, most  see little or no significant hurricane activity.
457 houston Flooding is most frequent in October and November. Flooding is most frequent in  and .
458 houston Since 1985, the latest a hurricane has impacted Texas was Hurricane Ike [2008]. Since , the latest a hurricane has impacted  was Hurricane Ike [].
459 houston June through August in Houston is very hot and humid, often with scattered afternoon showers and thunderstorms. through  in  is very hot and humid, often with scattered afternoon showers and thunderstorms.
460 houston The average daily high temperature peaks at  at the end of July, with an average of 99 days per year above . The average daily high temperature peaks at  at    , with an average    per  above .
461 houston The average relative humidity ranges from over 90 percent in the morning to around 60 percent in the afternoon. The average relative humidity ranges from over 90 percent in the morning to around 60 percent in the afternoon.
462 houston The temperatures in the summer in Houston are very similar to average temperatures seen in tropical climates, such as in the Philippines and Central America. The temperatures in the  in  are very similar to average temperatures seen in tropical climates, such as in the  and  .
463 houston The values of relative humidity results in a heat index higher than the actual temperature. The values of relative humidity results in a heat index higher than the actual temperature.
464 houston The hottest temperature ever recorded in Houston was  on September 4, 2000 and tied on August 27, 2011. The hottest temperature ever recorded in  was  on    and tied on   .
465 houston Heat stroke can strike people who stay out of doors for long periods of time during the summer so hydration is essential for outdoor work and recreational activity. Heat stroke can strike people who stay out of doors for long periods of time during the  so hydration is essential for outdoor work and recreational activity.
466 houston Houston's heat and humidity made air-conditioning an essential element in Houston's early survival, and it continues to be important in day-to-day life. 's heat and humidity made air-conditioning an essential element in 's early survival, and it continues to be important in day-to-day life.
467 houston Most workers are relatively unaffected by the heat since they spend the hottest part of the day indoors in air conditioning. Most workers are relatively unaffected by  heat since y spend  hottest part of   indoors in air conditioning.
468 houston Air conditioning is considered the stimulus for the growth of Houston in 1950 when it became the most air-conditioned city in the world. Air conditioning is considered the stimulus for the growth of  in  when it became the most air-conditioned city in the world.
469 houston The "Climate of Houston" is classified as humid subtropical. The "Climate of " is classified as humid subtropical.
470 houston Houston's warmest month (on average) is July at , and the coldest month being January at . 's warmest  (on average) is  at , and the coldest  being  at .
471 houston The average yearly precipitation level is . The average yearly precipitation level is .
472 houston Houston has occasional severe weather, mostly in the form of flooding. has occasional severe weather, mostly in the form of flooding.
473 houston Spring supercell thunderstorms sometimes bring tornadoes to the area. supercell thunderstorms sometimes bring tornadoes to the area.
474 houston Houston sometimes experiences tropical cyclones during the hurricane season, which can bring significant damage to the city. sometimes experiences tropical cyclones during the hurricane season, which can bring significant damage to the city.
475 houston The last to hit was Hurricane Ike in 2008. The last to hit was Hurricane Ike in .
476 houston Air Station Houston plays a major role in the aftermath of Tropical Storm Allison in June. Air Station  plays a major role in the aftermath of Tropical Storm Allison in .
477 houston With over 80 hoists throughout the 24-hour period, the Air Station was a major factor in the lives of many Houstonians. With over  hoists throughout the  period, the Air Station was a major factor in the lives of many .
478 houston The flooding occurred four days after the initial storm. The flooding occurred   after the initial storm.
479 houston Four days prior, during the throws of the storm, an Air Station Houston helicopter flew into the storm through 65+ knot winds to perform a medevac. prior, during the throws of the storm, an    helicopter flew into the storm through + knot winds to perform a medevac.
480 houston October Remnants of Hurricane Rosa dump more than 25 inches of rain on the Houston area from 18–31 October causing widespread flooding along the San Jacinto River. Remnants of Hurricane Rosa dump more than  inches of rain on the  area from –  causing widespread flooding along the   .
481 houston Air Station Houston responded by evacuating over 450 people from the flooded region. Air Station  responded by evacuating over  people from the flooded region.
482 houston Oil and gas pipelines, which crossed the river, gave way, creating a massive oil/gas spill, which exploded and burned for five days. Oil and gas pipelines, which crossed the river, gave way, creating a massive oil/gas spill, which exploded and burned for  .
483 houston The units provided critical support to the Marine Safety Office’s response and clean up operations associated with this disaster. The units provided critical support to the   ’s response and clean up operations associated with this disaster.
484 houston March The "storm of the Century" hits the Gulf Coast on 12–13 March. The "storm of  " hits  Gulf Coast on – .
485 houston Air Station Houston responded by saving 6 lives and 2 vessels and assisting others over an 18-hour period as heavy storms spawned life-threatening seas and skies. Air Station  responded by saving  lives and  vessels and assisting others over an  period as heavy storms spawned life-threatening seas and skies.
486 houston Hurricane Ike ravaged Eastern Texas on September 17. Hurricane Ike ravaged Eastern  on  .
487 houston Prior to Ike making landfall, a massive storm surge flooded Bolivar Peninsula trapping 200+residents. Prior to  making landfall, a massive storm surge flooded   trapping +residents.
488 houston Coast Guard Air Station Houston dispatched all three helicopters, two of which had already been prepositioned to Corpus Christi, to respond. dispatched all  helicopters,  of which had already been prepositioned to  , to respond.
489 houston In all,59 lives were saved by Air Station flight crews before the winds became too severe to continue. In all lives were saved by Air Station flight crews before the winds became too severe to continue.
490 houston In the weeks following the storm, Air Station Houston provided more than 115 flight-hours in support of post-storm recovery operations and media/VIP over-flights. In   following  storm,    provided more than  flight-hours in support of post-storm recovery operations and media/VIP over-flights.
491 houston In August, Hurricane Alicia devastates the Houston/Galveston area. In , Hurricane  devastates the Houston/Galveston area.
492 houston AIRSTA weathered the storm with two helos battened down in the hangar (a third was deployed on CGC Valiant) and half the crew remaining on board. AIRSTA weathered the storm with  helos battened down in the hangar (a  was deployed on  ) and half the crew remaining on board.
493 houston Post storm flights assisting stranded residents, delivering food, water and medical supplies, and surveying aid-to-navigation damage, total 52 hours. Post storm flights assisting stranded residents, delivering food, water and medical supplies, and surveying aid-to-navigation damage, total  .
494 houston Damage to AIRSTA has significant impact on relocation studies. Damage to  has significant impact on relocation studies.
495 houston AIRSTA helos have rendered assistance following violent storms and hurricanes more than nine times since 1963, including Gulfport, MI (1969); Brownsville, TX (1978); and Corpus Christi (1980). AIRSTA helos have rendered assistance following violent storms and hurricanes more than  times since , including , MI (); ,  (); and   ().
496 houston The first “linefill” of Colonial began the morning of Sept. 16, 1963 in Houston but was shut down that same afternoon for two days later when Hurricane Cindy struck the Gulf Coast. The  “linefill” of  began the morning of    in  but was shut down that same afternoon for    when Hurricane  struck the Gulf Coast.
497 houston Shortly after Hurricane Ike hit the Houston, Texas area in 2008, customers received bills and later collection notices for unreturned equipment that was destroyed during the storm. Shortly after   hit the ,  area in , customers received bills and later collection notices for unreturned equipment that was destroyed during the storm.
498 houston One customer reported a $931 bill which included a $66 credit for interrupted phone service, but also included $1000 charge for not returning her rented DVR, Cable Modem, and other equipment. customer reported a $931 bill which included a $66 credit for interrupted phone service, but also included $1000 charge for not returning her rented DVR, Cable Modem, and other equipment.
499 houston Comcast responses differed after the storm, with some Customer Care agents telling customers to file with their insurance providers, and other agents advising customers to return their equipment, even if it was ruined or moldy. responses differed after the storm, with some Customer Care agents telling customers to file with their insurance providers, and other agents advising customers to return their equipment, even if it was ruined or moldy.
500 houston The launch weather guidelines involving the Space Shuttle and expendable rockets are similar in many areas, but a distinction is made for the individual characteristics of each. The launch weather guidelines involving the Space Shuttle and expendable rockets are similar in many areas, but a distinction is made for the individual characteristics of each.
501 houston The criteria are broadly conservative and assure avoidance of possibly adverse conditions. The criteria are broadly conservative and assure avoidance of possibly adverse conditions.
502 houston They are reviewed for each launch. They are reviewed for each launch.
503 houston For the Space Shuttle, weather "outlooks" provided by the U. S. Air Force Range Weather Operations Facility at Cape Canaveral begin at Launch minus 5 days in coordination with the NOAA National Weather Service Spaceflight Meteorology Group at the Johnson Space Center in Houston. For the  Shuttle, weather "outlooks" provided by the     Range  Operations Facility at   begin at Launch minus   in coordination with the        at the    in .
504 houston These include weather trends and their possible effects on launch day. These include weather trends and their possible effects on launch .
505 houston A formal prelaunch weather briefing is held on Launch minus 1 day, which is a specific weather briefing for all areas of Space Shuttle launch operations. A formal prelaunch weather briefing is held on Launch minus  , which is a specific weather briefing for all areas of Space Shuttle launch operations.
506 houston Barbara Bush, wife of former president George H.W. Bush and mother of George W. Bush, generated criticism after comments on hurricane evacuees and a donation. , wife of former president    and mother of   , generated criticism after comments on hurricane evacuees and a donation.
507 houston While visiting a Houston relief center for people displaced by Hurricane Katrina, Bush told the radio program "Marketplace", While visiting a  relief center for people displaced by Hurricane ,  told the radio program "Marketplace",
508 houston The "1995 Colima-Jalisco earthquake" was a 8.0 Mw earthquake which occurred on October 9, 1995 at 15:36 UTC, off the coast of Jalisco, Mexico, with least 49 people dead and 100 more injured. The " Colima- earthquake" was a  Mw earthquake which occurred on    at 15:36 UTC off the coast of   with least 4 people dead and  more injured.
509 houston The earthquake triggered a tsunami, which affected a 200 km coast. The earthquake triggered a tsunami, which affected a  km coast.
510 houston The Cihuatlan-Manzanillo area, Colima, was more severely affected than other areas. The Cihuatlan-Manzanillo area, , was more severely affected than other areas.
511 houston The earthquake was felt in Mexico City and in high-rise buildings in Dallas and Houston. The earthquake was felt in   and in high-rise buildings in  and .
512 houston Climate is the unifying factor in the region's geography&mdash;all of east Texas has the humid subtropical climate typical of the Southeast, occasionally interrupted by intrusions of cold air from the north. Climate is the unifying factor in the region's geography&mdash;all of east  has the humid subtropical climate typical of the Southeast, occasionally interrupted by intrusions of cold air from the north.
513 houston East Texas receives more rainfall, , than the rest of Texas. East  receives more rainfall, , than the rest of .
514 houston In Houston the average January temperature is  and the average July temperature is , however Houston has slightly warmer winters than most of East Texas due to its proximity to the coast. In  the average  temperature is  and the average  temperature is , however  has slightly warmer winters than most of   due to its proximity to the coast.
515 houston Power outages in the wake of Katrina have also caused distribution problems for oil and natural gas. Power outages in the wake of  have also caused distribution problems for oil and natural gas.
516 houston Pipelines which move petroleum products from places like Houston to areas of the east coast have had their flows interrupted because power outages shut down the pumps that kept materials flowing. Pipelines which move petroleum products from places like  to areas of the east coast have had their flows interrupted because power outages shut down the pumps that kept materials flowing.
517 houston Dick Cheney personally called the manager of the Southern Pines Electric Power Association on the night of August 30 and again the next morning and ordered him to divert power crews to substations in nearby Collins that were essential to the operation of the Colonial Pipeline, which carries gasoline and diesel fuel from Texas to the Northeast. personally called  manager of       on  night of   and again    and ordered him to divert power crews to substations in nearby  that were essential to  operation of  Colonial Pipeline, which carries gasoline and diesel fuel from  to  Norast.
518 houston On August 30, the university reported that "physical damage to the area, including Tulane's campuses, was extensive" and conditions in the city were continuing to deteriorate. On  , the university reported that "physical damage to the area, including 's campuses, was extensive" and conditions in the city were continuing to deteriorate.
519 houston Power was out, water levels were rising, all city roads were blocked, and most of the Tulane workforce had evacuated. was out, water levels were rising, all city roads were blocked, and most of the Tulane workforce had evacuated.
520 houston (Ultimately, the damage was less than what was at first suspected. (Ultimately, the damage was less than what was at  suspected.
521 houston The water levels stopped at sea level, resulting in standing water ranging from several inches to several feet on the half of the campus sitting north of Freret Street, but no flooding on the other half, which contains the historic academic quad and buildings that extend to Gibson Hall on St. Charles Avenue.) The water levels stopped at sea level, resulting in standing water ranging from several inches to several feet on the half of the campus sitting north of  , but no flooding on the other half, which contains the historic academic quad and buildings that extend to   on   .)
522 houston By September 1, only a core group of public safety and facilities personnel remained on campus. By  , only a core group of public safety and facilities personnel remained on campus.
523 houston Tulane president Scott Cowen and an "emergency team" relocated to Houston, Texas to coordinate planning for recovery. president   and an "emergency team" relocated to ,  to coordinate planning for recovery.
524 houston Tulane reported that security was being maintained on campus and that students' belongings were safe in the unflooded areas of the dormitories. reported that security was being maintained on campus and that students' belongings were safe in the unflooded areas of the dormitories.
525 houston On September 2, President Cowen announced that the University would cancel classes for the fall semester. On  , President  announced that the University would cancel classes for the  semester.
526 houston National Guardsmen accompanied by buses (475 total) and supply trucks arrived at the Superdome on September 1. National Guardsmen accompanied by buses ( total) and supply trucks arrived at the Superdome on  .
527 houston The buses were sent to pick up the evacuees from the Superdome and the Ernest N. Morial Convention Center, where more than 20,000 people had been crowded in similarly poor living conditions. The buses were sent to pick up the evacuees from the Superdome and the    Convention Center, where more than  people had been crowded in similarly poor living conditions.
528 houston 13,000 evacuees were taken to the Reliant Astrodome in Houston. evacuees were taken to the Reliant Astrodome in .
529 houston By September 4, the last large group from the Superdome had been evacuated. By  , the last large group from the Superdome had been evacuated.
530 houston The 2008 memoir, Diary From the Dome, Reflections describes the personal ordeal of a tourist who was stuck in the Superdome during Katrina and the levee failures. The  memoir, Diary From the Dome, Reflections describes the personal ordeal of a tourist who was stuck in the Superdome during  and the levee failures.
531 houston When the flooding began on August 30, the Superdome began to slowly fill with water, though it remained confined to the field level. When the flooding began on  , the Superdome began to slowly fill with water, though it remained confined to the field level.
532 houston Later that day, Governor Blanco ordered New Orleans completely evacuated. Later that , Governor  ordered   completely evacuated.
533 houston On August 31, it was announced that the Superdome evacuees would move to the Reliant Astrodome in Houston, Texas. On  , it was announced that the Superdome evacuees would move to the Reliant Astrodome in , .
534 houston With no power and no water, sanitary conditions within the Superdome had rapidly deteriorated. With no power and no water, sanitary conditions within the Superdome had rapidly deteriorated.
535 houston As of August 31, there had been three deaths in the Superdome: two elderly medical patients and a man who is believed to have committed suicide by jumping from the upper level seats. As of  , there had been  deaths in the Superdome:  elderly medical patients and a man who is believed to have committed suicide by jumping from the upper level seats.
536 houston There were also unconfirmed reports of rape, vandalism, violent assaults, crack dealing/drug abuse, and gang activity inside the Superdome. There were also unconfirmed reports of rape, vandalism, violent assaults, crack dealing/drug abuse, and gang activity inside the Superdome.
537 houston On September 11, New Orleans Police Superintendent Eddie Compass reported there were "no confirmed reports of any type of sexual assault." On  ,       reported there were "no confirmed reports of any type of sexual assault."
538 houston On September 8, Texas State Governor Rick Perry declared 88 Texas state counties a disaster area in preparation for Hurricane Ike, expected to hit the Texas coast as early as Saturday morning, which included placing 7,500 Texas Military Forces troops on standby. On  ,  State Governor   declared   state counties a disaster area in preparation for Hurricane Ike, expected to hit the  coast as early as  morning, which included placing    Forces troops on standby.
539 houston The Texas County of Brazoria called for voluntary evacuation and Matagorda County called for mandatory evacuation as did the County of Brazoria for zip code 77541 and the city of Lake Jackson. The   of  called for voluntary evacuation and   called for mandatory evacuation as did the  of  for zip code  and the city of  .
540 houston Galveston, parts of southern Houston and areas south of the city and near the Texas coast were under a mandatory evacuation order starting at noon September 11. , parts of southern  and areas south of the city and near the  coast were under a mandatory evacuation order starting at noon  .
541 houston On September 10, U.S. President George W. Bush made an emergency declaration for Texas in advance of Hurricane Ike, making more federal help available for preparations and evacuations. On  ,  President    made an emergency declaration for  in advance of Hurricane Ike, making more federal help available for preparations and evacuations.
542 houston The storm had come ashore hours before daybreak with 110-mph (175 km/h) winds and towering waves, pushing boats ashore, smashing many houses, flooding thousands of homes, knocking out windows in Houston's skyscrapers, uprooting trees, and cutting electric power to more than millions of customers (estimates range from 2.8 million to 4.5 million  customers) for weeks or months. The storm had come ashore  before daybreak with 110-mph ( km/h) winds and towering waves, pushing boats ashore, smashing many houses, flooding thousands of homes, knocking out windows in 's skyscrapers, uprooting trees, and cutting electric power to more than s of customers (estimates range from   to    customers) for  or .
543 houston Kemah, Texas, about 35 miles (56 km) south of Houston, was without power and water, and still had 5 feet of flooding on Saturday, 13 September 2008. about  miles ( km) south of  was without power and water and still had  feet of flooding on    .
544 houston State Highway 146 was closed at the 2094 intersection. State Highway  was closed at the  intersection.
545 houston There was a lot of debris on the roads, completely covering some lanes. There was a lot of debris on the roads, completely covering some lanes.
546 houston Severe damage occurred at the Kemah Boardwalk, the site of many popular restaurants and shops, as well as a small waterfront amusement park with various rides, including a carousel, kiddie train and Ferris wheel overlooking Galveston Bay. Severe damage occurred at the  , the site of many popular restaurants and shops, as well as a small waterfront amusement park with various rides, including a carousel, kiddie train and  wheel overlooking  .
547 houston The entire first floor of Landry's seafood restaurant was demolished and swept away, as well as those of neighboring structures. The entire  floor of 's seafood restaurant was demolished and swept away, as well as those of neighboring structures.
548 houston The Boardwalk had received 4 million visitors per year. The Boardwalk had received   visitors per .
549 houston In an interview on local CBS affiliate KHOU-TV, the Boardwalk manager expressed confidence that despite such unprecedented devastation to the tourist attraction, the site would be rebuilt. In an interview on local  affiliate , the  manager expressed confidence that despite such unprecedented devastation to the tourist attraction, the site would be rebuilt.
550 houston A Valero Energy Corp. spokesman, Bill Day, said that crews would soon get in to inspect the oil refineries in Houston and Texas City, which remained shut down on Saturday, 13 September 2008. A    spokesman   said that crews would soon get in to inspect the oil refineries in  and   which remained shut down on    .
551 houston Texas City (north of Galveston) was very near to the landfall site of Hurricane Ike. (north of ) was very near to the landfall site of Hurricane Ike.
552 houston The Mainland Medical Center (off I-45) closed its doors on Saturday (13Sep08) at 4 p.m. CDT, after water service was unavailable in the area. The Mainland Medical Center (off I-45) closed its doors on  (13Sep08) at 4 p.m. CDT, after water service was unavailable in the area.
553 houston One death has been reported in Texas City, which was caused by a lack of dialysis treatment due to the storm's aftermath. death has been reported in  , which was caused by a lack of dialysis treatment due to the storm's aftermath.
554 houston Afterward, an estimated 100,000 homes had been flooded in Texas, and numerous boats washed ashore. Afterward, an estimated  homes had been flooded in , and numerous boats washed ashore.
555 houston Galveston was declared uninhabitable, and Houston imposed a week-long nighttime curfew due to limited electric power. was declared uninhabitable, and  imposed a week-long nighttime curfew due to limited electric power.
556 houston In Houston, windows also broke in downtown buildings such as the 75-story JPMorgan Chase Tower, and Reliant Stadium was damaged. In , windows also broke in downtown buildings such as the 75-story JPMorgan Chase Tower, and Reliant Stadium was damaged.
557 houston According to a witness interviewed by FoxNews, furniture from offices in the JPMorgan Chase building was blown out of the shattered windows and into the parking garage across the street. According to a witness interviewed by FoxNews, furniture from offices in the   building was blown out of the shattered windows and into the parking garage across the street.
558 houston A fire partially burned Brennan's restaurant in downtown Houston, but workers were rescued. A fire partially burned 's restaurant in downtown , but workers were rescued.
559 houston Many trees were uprooted, and bus stop shelters were mangled. Many trees were uprooted, and bus stop shelters were mangled.
560 houston Houston's theater district was flooded. 's theater district was flooded.
561 houston Also on September 11, at 8:19 p.m. (CDT), the National Weather Service in Houston/Galveston, TX issued a strongly worded bulletin, regarding storm surge along the shoreline of Galveston Bay. Also on  , at 8:19 p.m. (CDT), the    in Houston/,  issued a strongly worded bulletin, regarding storm surge along the shoreline of  .
562 houston The bulletin advised residents living in single-family homes in some parts of coastal Texas may face "certain death" if they do not heed orders to evacuate. The bulletin advised residents living in single-family homes in some parts of coastal  may face "certain death" if they do not heed orders to evacuate.
563 houston Reports said as many as 40 percent of Galveston's citizens may have not paid attention to the warnings. Reports said as many as 40 percent of 's citizens may have not paid attention to the warnings.
564 houston It was feared to be much the same in Port Arthur. It was feared to be much the same in  .
565 houston On September 11, forecasting models began to show Ike making landfall just south of Galveston. On  , forecasting models began to show  making landfall just south of .
566 houston City Manager Steve LeBlanc late Wednesday issued a mandatory evacuation order for the low lying west end of Galveston Island. City Manager     issued a mandatory evacuation order for the low lying west end of  .
567 houston Later, the mandatory evacuation order was extended to the entire island of Galveston, as well as low-lying areas around Houston, Texas. Later, the mandatory evacuation order was extended to the entire island of , as well as low-lying areas around , .
