On September 2, a tropical storm developed in the Bay of Campeche.
Moving generally towards the west-northwest, the storm reached a peak intensity of 60 mph (95 km/h) on September 4, while approaching landfall in Northeastern Mexico.
Shortly thereafter, the storm made landfall and quickly weakened into a tropical depression.
Moving northward through Central Texas, the storm dissipated on September 7, while located to the southwest of the Dallas-Fort Worth, Texas area.
The storm was responsible for destroying the Brazos Santiago lighthouse and for one fatality.

On Trinidad, rainfall from this storm and a subsequent tropical depression were the heaviest in nine years, which caused rivers to overflow and flooded parts of the island.
Several boats were damaged or driven ashore from rough seas.
The two storms caused damage to fields, highways, and houses, and caused the loss of crops such as cocoa and bananas.
In all, damage totaled $3 million (1933 USD) and there were 13 deaths on Trinidad.
The storm produced heavy rainfall in eastern Jamaica, including a record 24-hour total of  in the Corporate Area, and Dallas Castle received  in 24 hours.
This flooded and damaged properties and water systems in Kingston and Saint Andrew, leading to a water famine until the water mains were fixed.
Damage totaled to over $2.5 million (1933 USD, $  USD), and 70 people were reported killed due to the flooding.
Damage was minimal in both Cuba and Florida.

The third tropical storm of the season (initially classified as two separate storms but later identified as a single track) was first observed on July 14 near St. Kitts.
It moved quickly westward and passed just south of Puerto Rico and Hispaniola as a weak storm.
The system curved slightly to the west-northwest and brushed the northern coast of Jamaica before turning slightly westward and hitting the Mexican state of Quintana Roo.
As it crossed the Yucatán Peninsula the cyclone weakened and eventually crossed into the Bay of Campeche.
It moved quickly to the northwest, and made landfall near Matagorda Bay, in Texas on July 23 as a 45 mph (70 km/h) tropical storm.
The system turned to the northeast, and became extratropical to the east of Dallas, Texas.
The extratropical system moved slowly through northern Louisiana, turned to the northeast, and dissipated over northeastern Arkansas near Memphis, Tennessee.

1. Dallas Long, Univ. of Southern Calif. – 61 feet, 9 inches (new NCAA meet record) 2. Jerry Winter, Stanford – 57 feet, 10¾ inches 3. Mike Lewis, Occidental College – 57 feet, 6½ inches

The contrast between the two air masses was stark, and by the morning of October 29 the cold front was about halfway through Texas.
At 6 am CST, the temperature in the western Texas city of Amarillo had dropped to 22 degrees with a strong northerly breeze.
Farther east in Texas the temperature was 64 in Dallas – a 42-degree temperature difference over about 300 miles.
In the northern United States, morning lows were much colder.
Temperatures were in the single digits across Montana and Wyoming and in the teens North Dakota and South Dakota.

The "1995 Colima-Jalisco earthquake" was a Mw 8.0 earthquake which occurred on October 9 at 15:36 UTC, off the coast of Jalisco, Mexico.
At least 49 people died and 100 were injured because of the earthquake.
The earthquake triggered a tsunami, which affected a 200 km stretch of the coast.
The Cihuatlan-Manzanillo area, Colima, was more severely affected than other areas.
The earthquake could be felt in Mexico City and in high-rise buildings in Dallas and Houston.
The intensities in Colima and Jalisco reached MM VI.

Frances formed in the western Gulf of Mexico on September 8.
It briefly drifted south, but then turned north and then northwest.
It made landfall north of Corpus Christi, Texas on September 11 as a moderately strong tropical storm.
It weakened to a tropical depression as it travelled north, and dissipated north of Dallas, Texas.

At least 29 people were killed, 300 injured, about 10,000 were left homeless, 2,005 houses were destroyed and 6,615  were damaged.
Most of the deaths and damage occurred in the Villa de Álvarez area of Colima.
Extensive damage (rating VIII) occurred in  the city of Colima and in Tecomán.
Some deaths and damage occurred in the states of Jalisco and Michoacán and a few buildings were damaged as far away as Guanajuato and Morelos.
The quake was felt strongly (rating VI) in parts of Mexico City.
It was also felt in most of Mexico and in the United States in Corpus Christi, Texas, Dallas, Texas and El Paso, Texas.
Occupants of high-rise buildings in Houston, Texas also reported feeling its effects.
Landslides closed a segment of the Colima-Guadalajara Highway and the port of Manzanillo.
Power and telephone outages occurred in Mexico City.
A local tsunami of about 1 m (peak-to-trough) was recorded at Manzanillo.
A seiche was observed on Lake Pontchartrain in the US state of Louisiana, and sediment was stirred up in several Louisiana wells.

Dallas, Texas; Shreveport, Louisiana; the New England region; and other areas have reported damage such as ruptured water lines and buckled roads.
The heat wave has been blamed for the damage.
Interstate 44 had two traffic lanes temporarily closed in Oklahoma City after they buckled under the heat.
In addition, overworked power transformers have been damaged or rendered useless because of the heat, resulting in blackouts, notably in St. Louis, Missouri; Queens, New York; Los Angeles, California; and the Delaware Valley.
Some wildfires, including forest fires, and greater thunderstorm intensity, have both been blamed on the heat wave.

Early on the morning of February 5, a squall line developed across eastern Texas northward into Missouri and moved east towards the high risk area.
Ahead of the squall line, the cap took longer than expected to break, but when it finally did in the late afternoon hours, numerous supercell thunderstorms quickly formed across Arkansas and southern Missouri.
The first tornadoes touched down around 3:30 pm CST (2130 UTC).
A cap is a layer of relatively warm air aloft (usually several thousand feet above the ground) which suppresses or delays the development of thunderstorms; the cap often prevents or delays thunderstorm development even in the presence of extreme instability.
However, if the cap is removed or weakened, then explosive thunderstorm development can occur.
Some of the most powerful tornado producing supercells were situated across the Memphis and Jackson areas, as well as central Arkansas (one producing a tornado that tracked 122 miles (196 km) and lasting about two hours) between 5:00 and 7:30 pm CST (2300 to 0130 UTC) while numerous other tornadoes were reported across northern Mississippi northwest of Tupelo, Mississippi early in the evening.
As the evening progressed, one of these supercells traveled across Middle Tennessee including the Nashville metropolitan area and south-central Kentucky, where several deadly tornadoes were reported during the evening hours between 7:30 pm and 11:00 pm CST (0130 to 0500 UTC).
Meanwhile, the squall line that developed from near Dallas to Kansas City moved eastward throughout the late evening and overnight hours causing numerous reports of damaging wind along with many spin-up tornadoes from Louisiana to Ohio and Indiana.
It then moved through the southeast U.S. during the early morning hours.
Additional strong thunderstorms developed ahead of the front across the southeast during the overnight and early morning hours.
A record (at the time) of five tornado emergency declarations were issued on February 5; four for Tennessee, and one in Alabama.

The storm was so intense that it wrapped warm air around the north and west side of it and cold air and snow blew in from the south.
Rochester, Minnesota, in the northern half of the storm, saw rain with temperatures in the mid 30's Fahrenheit while snow was falling just to the west in a  band stretching from Canada south to at least Dallas, Texas, giving that region its first "White Christmas" since 1929.
Interstate 29 was completely closed in North and South Dakota, and then in stretches into Missouri.

On May 9, 2006, a storm producing 2 tornadoes swept across Anna, with the first tornado (F0) passing 2.5 miles east of the high school barely missing the incorporated city limits.
The tornado (F3) touched down in neighboring unincorporated Westminster, Texas and Whitewright, Texas, destroying many homes and killing 3.
During the disaster, several volunteers from Collin County Amateur Radio Services worked with the National Weather Service in a Skywarn net.
Anna Police and Fire Departments along with the American Red Cross opened Anna High School up as a shelter to the "walking wounded" and anyone who needed a place to stay due to the road blockages and damage in that area.
The tornadoes could be seen from Anna, Van Alstyne, and Melissa and power was knocked out to several homes in the area.
Sirens sounded for Anna residents twice, giving people time to take shelter and prepare for the storm.
Media and many of the volunteers from around the Dallas/Fort Worth area set up in Anna.

Another major tornado event struck the densely populated areas of the Dallas–Fort Worth Metroplex on March 28, 2000 when F3 tornadoes struck Downtown Fort Worth as well as Arlington killing at least 3 and injuring dozens of people while damaging or destroying several structures including several office towers.
Additional tornadoes that touched down near the Metroplex area the following morning in Fort Worth and other areas but no additional fatalities were reported.

The tornado was heavily documented and photographed by several eye-witnesses as it was clearly visible throughout most of its 17-mile path through residential and commercial areas of Dallas up to near Love Field Airport.
At that time, it was the most observed tornado ever.
A researcher from the Severe Weather Forecast Unit in Kansas City noticed that several old theories were proven false during the Dallas tornado.
One of the theories was that all air and debris flow inward into the funnel and then upward, but on the outside edges of the funnel debris and people were even lifted.
WFAA-TV in Dallas produced a 30-minute documentary about the tornado about one week later.

At around 3:00 PM CST, the first tornadoes touched down north of the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex area.
At around 4:30 CST, a tornado touched down in southern Dallas County (south of modern-day Interstate 20) and traveled northward for about 45 minutes through the Dallas neighborhoods of Oak Cliff, Kessler Park, West Dallas (just west of Downtown Dallas) and Love Field before lifting over Bachman Lake (west of Dallas Love Field Airport) just after 5:00 PM CST.
Ten people were killed and 200 others injured by the F3 tornado; damage was estimated at around $4 million (in 1957 dollars).
Nearly 600 structures were damaged including over 100 homes and a dozen apartment buildings.
Some businesses and schools were also damaged but the Parkland Memorial Hospital was narrowly spared by the tornado as was the Dallas Love Field Airport.
Another tornado in Collin County north of the city also caused extensive damage.

The "April 1957 Dallas tornado outbreak" was a deadly tornado outbreak that struck most of the Southern United States from April 2 to the early hours of April 4, 1957.
The outbreak was most notable due to a tornado that hit a densely populated area of the Dallas Metropolitan area, while other deadly tornadoes struck portions of Mississippi, Texas, and Oklahoma.
The two-day outbreak killed at least 19 across 3 states and produced 50 tornadoes from Texas to Tennessee.

The "April 1994 tornado outbreak" was a widespread tornado outbreak that affected much of the Central and Southern Plains of the United States as well as the Midwest and the Deep South from Colorado to New York from April 25 to April 27, 1994.
The entire outbreak killed at least six people across two states from two different F4 tornadoes near Dallas, Texas and Lafayette, Indiana.

Several storm thunderstorm cells known as supercells were responsible for most of the tornadoes during the event.
Several scattered strong storms/supercells developed during the afternoon and late-evening hours on April 25.
The most notable storm of the day produced several tornadoes across the Dallas-Fort Worth area.
The first tornado touchdown in the Fort Worth area but caused little if any damage.
An F2 tornado shortly caused extensive damage to the town of DeSoto in Dallas County.
Numerous structures were destroyed and the City Hall itself sustained major damage that totaled about $50 million.
No fatalities were reported by this tornado.
However, further east, the same storm intensified and produced a violent F4 tornado that traveled through the Lancaster area killing 3 and injured nearly 50 others while destroying much of the historic downtown square.
In addition to the tornadoes, extensive hail was recorded across much of the Metroplex region.
Total tornado and hail figures in Texas alone on this date was estimated at $300 million.

What was initially believed to be a wind and hail event from reliable models and forecast unexpectedly developed into a locally significant tornado outbreak as a result of changing mesoscale situations, concentrated on the heavily populated Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex.
That development was attributed to an outflow boundary from another area of storms farther north in Oklahoma that tracked southward across the Red River and into the Metroplex where it stalled just south of the Interstate 20 corridor in the southern suburbs, allowing discrete supercells to form along the boundary.
The boundary increased low-level wind shear significantly due to easterly winds, allowing for tornadoes to develop.
As a result, taking advantage of the highly unstable environment that became much more highly sheared than initially forecasted with high CAPE values, the storms became much more intense than forecasted and quickly became tornadic and intense, resulting in severe damage across the region in heavily populated areas.
South of the boundary, shear was much more marginal and tornadoes did not develop.
Once the cells tracked eastward towards Louisiana, the atmosphere was much more stable and the cells rapidly weakened.

The "April 3, 2012 tornado outbreak" was a tornado outbreak across a portion of the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex.
Several strong to mostly weak tornadoes touched down near Dallas and Fort Worth and points east.
This included an EF3 in Forney, Texas which devastated the Diamond Creek subdivision and a school in town.
It was estimated on April 5 that over 1,100 homes were damaged in the outbreak, including at least 349 that were destroyed.
Remarkably, despite hitting heavily populated areas, no one was killed and very few people were injured.

One Dallas-based company offers "holographic mylar" trees in many hues.
Tree-shaped objects made from such materials as cardboard, glass, ceramic or other materials can be found in use as tabletop decorations.
Upside-down artificial Christmas trees were originally introduced as a marketing gimmick; they allowed consumers to get closer to ornaments for sale in retail stores as well as opened up floor space for more products.
There were three varieties of upside-down trees, those bolted to the ceiling, stand alone trees with a base, and half-trees bolted to walls.

The Austin Chalk consists of recrystalized, fossiliferous, interbedded chalks and marls.
Exposures of Austin Chalk are mainly seen in quarries, roadcuts, and stream beds where the water eroded the soil.
The Austin Chalk outcrops and can be seen throughout Dallas, and extends south underneath I-35 down into Austin and San Antonio.
Volcanic ash layers are present in the Austin chalk, and were deposited by wind from distant erupting volcanoes around 86 mya.
These eruptions occurred along a 250-mile long by 50 mile wide belt of submarine volcanoes, which are located in present day south-central Texas.
This belt of volcanoes coincides with the trend of the Balcones Fault zone and is known as the Balcones volcanic province.
Evidence of these ancient volcanoes is only visible in a few places since most were buried by the Austin and Taylor Group, and now are in the subsurface.
The presence of this volcanism during deposition of the Austin Chalk is correlated with the Laramide orogeny.
Sea level rose for conditions to be right for the deposition of the Austin Chalk, which also coincides with the maximum extent of the Cretaceous Interior Seaway.
The depths of the deposition of the Austin Chalk occurred in ~250 m or 820 ft of water.
The Austin Chalk is filled with micro-organism fossils known as coccoliths.

"Balcones Fault" was a 1970s comedic Dixieland jazz band from Austin, Texas who took their name after the Balcones Fault zone in southwest-central Texas.
Balcones Fault appeared frequently at the Armadillo World Headquarters.
The band appeared on the PBS music television program Austin City Limits in 1976 and produced one album on the Cream label, titled "It's All Balcones Fault" in 1977.
the album title was taken from a Dallas radio show script written by Peter Nye, who played trombone with the band in 1975.

The Fort Worth Basin and Bend Arch lie entirely within north central Texas covering an area of .
The southern and eastern boundaries are defined by county lines that generally follow the Ouachita structural front, although a substantial portion of this structural feature is included near Dallas.
The north boundary follows the Texas-Oklahoma State line in the east, where the province includes parts of the Sherman Basin and Muenster Arch.
In the west, the north boundary follows the north-east county lines of Oklahoma's three southwestern counties (Harmon, Jackson and Tillman Counties), which include the south flank of the Wichita Mountains and the Hollis Basin.
The western boundary trends north-south along county lines defining the junction with the Permian Basin where part of the eastern shelf of the Permian Basin lies in Province 045.

The "Austin chalk" limestone uplift on which most of Cedar Hill is spread is covered with "gumbo"-cleche-clay topsoil from a few inches to many feet.
The western edge of the city, primarily the Lake Ridge neighborhood, falls below the limestone uplift on the Eagle Ford shale strata surrounding Joe Pool Lake.
Home foundation problems—similar to those in Irving's Las Colinas neighborhood to the north and built on the same strata—await those who fail to take precautions in building on expansive soil lying over the Eagle Ford formation.
As noted in the demographics below (and like some of the cities immediately surrounding it such as Duncanville and DeSoto), the city is significantly diverse compared to other cities around Dallas which tend to be predominantly of one ethnic origin or another.
In the last few years, the city has been booming with new construction as urban sprawl spreads south of Dallas.

Being mostly farm and ranch land, the terrain is largely open fields on flat-to-gently-rolling terrain.
The ambient air temperature is typically 4 to 6 °F cooler than Dallas  south.

"Chorioactis geaster" has a disjunct distribution, and has only been collected from Texas and Japan.
The first reported collection in Japan was in Kyushu in 1937, and then it was not collected again in that location until thirty-six years later.
In 2006, it was observed in a humid forest near Kawakami, Nara Prefecture.
The fungus's natural habitat in Japan is disappearing because of the practice of deforestation and replanting with Japanese cedar ("Cryptomeria japonica").
This rare mushroom has been put on the list of threatened species in Japan.
In Texas, the fungus has been reported in Collin County, Hays, Travis, Dallas, Denton, Guadalupe, Tarrant and Hunt Counties.
Travis, Hays, and Guadalupe counties are in central Texas, while the remainder are clustered together in the northeastern part of the state.
Although the species is considered rare due to its globally restricted distribution, it may be locally abundant.
Although it is not known definitively, "Chorioactis" is believed to be saprobic, deriving nutrients from decomposing organic matter.
In Texas, fruit bodies are found growing singly or in groups from roots, stumps, and dead roots of cedar elm trees ("Ulmus crassifolia") or "Symplocos myrtacea"; in Japan, the usual host is dead oak trees.
Fruit bodies can be clustered together close to the base of the stump, or from the roots away from the stump; the stem of the fruit body tends to originate from a point  below the ground.
In Texas, fruit bodies usually appear between October and April, as this period is associated with somewhat cooler weather, and the temperature and moisture conditions during this time seem to be more favorable for growth.

Other gimmicks have developed as well.
Fiber optic Christmas trees come in two major varieties; one resembles a traditional Christmas tree.
One Dallas-based company offers "holographic mylar" trees in many hues.
Tree-shaped objects made from such materials as cardboard, glass, ceramic or other materials can be found in use as tabletop decorations.
Upside-down artificial Christmas trees became popular for a short time and were originally introduced as a marketing gimmick; they allowed consumers to get closer to ornaments for sale in retail stores and opened up floor space for more products.

In Dallas, one study projects that by 2050 heat-related deaths during a typical summer could triple, from about 35 heat-related deaths per summer to over 100 (although increased air conditioning used during these periods may not have been accounted for).
Winter-related deaths are expected to change very little.
The elderly, particularly those living alone, are at greatest risk.

The city of Dallas has a humid, hot climate and is often prone to storms (severe or not) (Köppen climate classification Cfa), though it is located in a region that also tends to receive warm, dry winds from the north and west in the summer, bringing temperatures about  at times and heat-humidity indexes soaring to as high as .

A couple of times each year, warm and humid air from the south overrides cold, dry air, leading to freezing rain, which often causes major disruptions in the city if the roads and highways become slick.
On the other hand, daytime highs above  are not unusual during the winter season.
In sum, extremes in weather are more readily seen in Dallas and Texas as a whole than along the Pacific and Atlantic coasts, due to the state's location in the interior of the United States.

Spring and autumn bring pleasant weather to the area.
Vibrant wildflowers (such as the bluebonnet, Indian paintbrush and other flora) bloom in spring and are planted around the highways throughout Texas.
Springtime weather can be quite volatile, but temperatures themselves are mild.
The weather in Dallas is also generally pleasant between late September and early December, and unlike springtime, major storms rarely form in the area.

Since Dallas lies at the lower end of the "Tornado Alley", tornadoes are perhaps the biggest threat to the city.
Dallas was hit by a powerful tornado on 2 April 1957.
The tornado would have likely been an F3.
On March 28, 2000, the “Fort Worth Tornado” impacted Dallas's neighbor Fort Worth's downtown, and a tornado in Arlington, Texas also occurred that day damaging some homes.
That day was the Metroplex's most damaging tornado outbreak since the 1957 event.
Another widespread tornado outbreak struck the area in the Dallas tornado outbreak of April 3, 2012, slightly damaging Rangers Ballpark in Arlington and damaging some planes and grounding the others at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport and Dallas Love Field, heavily damaging an elementary school, and destroying semis in a facility.

Unlike Dallas, Houston is not in Tornado Alley.
Smaller tornadoes can occur during severe weather.
They are most likely to be found along frontal boundaries of an air mass during the spring months.
Tornadoes in Houston usually measure a weak F1 on the old Fujita scale, and cause light to moderate damage to well-constructed buildings.
The strongest recorded tornado in Houston history was an F4 on November 21, 1992, part of a large outbreak of tornadoes.

The worst cold snap to occur statewide occurred during the last half of December in 1983.
Four stations recorded their longest continuous readings at or below  on record.
At Austin, Texas, the temperature remained at or below freezing for 139 hours.
At Abilene, Texas, the period at or below freezing totaled 202 hours.
Lubbock, Texas saw temperatures at or below freezing for 207 hours.
The Dallas-Fort Worth airport measured temperatures at or below freezing for a total of 296 consecutive hours.
Snow which fell on December 14 and December 15 across northern Texas stayed on the ground until New Year's Day of 1984.

The Model “S”, here as illustrated in 1924, is an example of an early model convection space heater, by the Sala Heater & Mantel Co. in  Dallas, Texas.
The Model "S" was considered to be highly efficient radiant type of gas heater at the time.
The heater utilizes radiant heat, and, by virtue of draft construction, supplements its power by drawing cold air through the facing, heating it and forcing it into the room through the register.
This not only forces the circulation that provides an even warmth in every section of the room, but enables the heater to operate at all times with a perfectly cool exterior.
Positive circulation provides an even warmth throughout the room, and guarantees a clean, humid, healthful air to occupants.
The mixing chamber, due to its exclusive construction, utilizes centrifugal force to insure a perfect mixture between the gas and air, which in turn provides complete combustion, thus preventing dangerous fumes.
After the gas leaves the mixing chamber it passes into a distribution chamber whose shape is such that an equal amount of gas passes into each jet, giving uniform flame height and intensity.

Dallas has a humid subtropical climate, though it is located in a region that also tends to receive warm, dry winds from the north and west in the summer, bringing temperatures well over  at times and heat-humidity indexes soaring to as high as .
When only temperature itself is accounted for, the north central Texas region where Dallas is located is one of the hottest in the United States during the summer months, usually trailing only the Mojave Desert basin of Arizona, southern Nevada, and southeastern California.

Winters in Dallas are generally mild, with normal daytime highs ranging from  to  and normal nighttime lows falling in between  and .
A day with clear, sunny skies, a high of , and a low of  would thus be a very typical one during the winter.
However, strong cold fronts known as "Blue Northers" sometimes pass through the Dallas region, plummeting nightly lows below  for up to a few days at a time and keeping daytime highs in a struggle to surpass .
Snow accumulation is usually seen in the city at least once every winter, and snowfall generally occurs 1–2 days out of the year for an annual average of .
Some areas in the region, however, receive more than that, while other areas receive negligible snowfall or none at all.
A couple of times each winter in Dallas, warm and humid air from the south will override cold, dry air, resulting in freezing rain or ice and causing disruptions in the city if the roads and highways become slick.
On the other hand, daytime highs above  are not unusual and will occur at least several days each winter month—roughly the same number of days each December, January, and February that low temperatures fall below  or that high temperatures fail to reach .
Over the past 15 years, Dallas has averaged 31 annual nights at or below freezing, with the winter of 1999–2000 holding the all-time record as having the fewest freezing nights, with 14.
During this same span of 15 years, the temperature in the region has only twice dropped below , though it will generally fall below  about once every other year.
In sum, extremes and variations in winter weather are more readily seen in Dallas and Texas as a whole than along the Pacific and Atlantic coasts, due to the state's location in the interior of the North American continent and the lack of any mountainous terrain to the north to block out Arctic weather systems.
Spring and autumn bring pleasant weather to the area.
Vibrant wildflowers (such as the bluebonnet, Indian paintbrush and other flora) bloom in spring and are planted around the highways throughout Texas.
Springtime weather can be quite volatile, but temperatures themselves are mild.
The weather in Dallas is also generally pleasant from late September to early December and on many winter days.
Autumn often brings more storms and tornado threat, but usually fewer and less severe than in spring.

The U.S. Department of Agriculture places Dallas in Plant Hardiness Zone 8a.
However, mild winter temperatures in the past 15 to 20 years have encouraged the horticulture of some cold-sensitive plants such as "Washingtonia filifera" and "Washingtonia robusta" palms.
According to the American Lung Association, Dallas has the 12th highest air pollution among U.S. cities, ranking it behind Los Angeles and Houston.
Much of the air pollution in Dallas and the surrounding area comes from a hazardous materials incineration plant in the small town of Midlothian and from concrete installations in neighbouring Ellis County.

"Dallas Abbott" is a research scientist at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University and is part of the Holocene Impact Working Group.
The primary focus of her present research is on submarine impact craters and their contribution to climate change and megatsunamis.
She also has presented research regarding a large impact crater in the Gulf of Maine.

On May 2, 2009, the Dallas Cowboys' practice facility collapsed during a wind storm.
The collapse left twelve Cowboys players and coaches injured.
The most serious injuries were special teams coach Joe DeCamillis, who suffered fractured cervical vertebrae and had surgery to stabilize fractured vertebrae in his neck, and Rich Behm, the team's 33-year-old scouting assistant, who was permanently paralyzed from the waist down after his spine was severed.

Dallas Peck was an authority on volcanoes who served as director of the U.S. Geological Survey from 1981 to 1993.
He spent his entire career at the U.S. Geological Survey, starting in 1951.
Peck worked in California and Hawaii before moving to the Washington, D.C. area in 1966.
He was chief of the geologic division from 1977 until he was appointed director of the survey.
During his tenure, he expanded the scope of the survey's work on mineral resources, global change, water quality and mapping.

The distribution system of Dallas Water Utilities (DWU) is one of the largest in the United States.
As of June 2003, DWU provided retail water service to just over 1.2 million people within the Dallas city limits.
The major distribution system facilities include 28 pump stations (including the high service pump stations at the three water treatment plants), 11 ground storage reservoirs, 9 elevated tanks, and 78 vault structures separate from the major facilities, in addition to over  of distribution and transmission main.
The distribution system is divided into 17 pressure zones to maintain adequate water pressures throughout the system.
There are four major pressure zones (Central Low, North High, East High, and South High), and five smaller secondary pressure zones (Meandering Way High, Red Bird High, Trinity Heights, Pleasant Grove, and Cedardale) which comprise most of the Dallas service area.
Each of the nine major and secondary pressure zones are supplied by one or more pump stations and have elevated or ground storage facilities that establish the static hydraulic gradient for each zone.
The remaining eight pressure zones are supplied from an adjacent pressure zone via pressure reducing valve, or single, small booster pump station.
These pressure zones do not have storage facilities that establish their static hydraulic gradient.

Dallas has a humid subtropical climate that is local to all of Georgia.
The average yearly precipitation is .
Snow flurries occasionally fall in the winter months, when there is the presence of a deep trough in the jet stream over the eastern third of the United States.
Although at times significant amounts of snowfall have been recorded, some years have no measurable snowfall.
The Storm of the Century (1993) in March 1993 brought 17.5 inches to Dallas, with drifts measuring several feet.
Drought is frequent in Dallas, as well as the rest of the Southeastern United States.
The coldest temperature ever recorded in Dallas was -12F(-24C) in 2010.
The warmest temperature ever recorded was 104F(40C) in 1980 and again in 2007.

""Dallasaurus"" is a basal mosasauroid from the Upper Cretaceous of North America.
Along with "Russellosaurus", "Dallasaurus" is one of the two oldest mosasauroid taxa currently known from North America.
This small semi-aquatic lizard measured less than a meter in length, compared to such gigantic derived mosasaurs as "Tylosaurus" and "Mosasaurus", each exceededing 15 meters.
In appearance, it was similar to its closest living relative, the Komodo Dragon.

The genus is based upon two partial skeletons recovered from the Arcadia Park Shale (lower Middle Turonian), approximately 15 meters above its contact with the older Kamp Ranch Limestone in Dallas County in north-central Texas.

The holotype specimen (TMM 43209-1, Texas Memorial Museum, University of Texas at Austin) consists of an incomplete and disarticulated skull, along with considerable portions of the postcranial skeleton, making up about 80 percent of the animal.
The second referred specimen (DMNH 8121-8125, 8143-8149, and 8161-8180, Dallas Museum of Natural History) lacks any skull material and consists entirely of disarticulated postcranial remains.
The strata containing these fossils were temporarily exposed during excavations for a housing development, and both sites have now been reburied by construction.
The two specimens were discovered about 100 meters from one another; the first was found by an amateur collector, Van Turner, for whom the type species ("Dallasaurus turneri") was named.
The genus is named for Dallas County, where both specimens were found.

Polcyn and Bell diagnose "Dallasaurus" as follows: "Small, plesiopedal mosasauroid possessing the following autapomorphies: posterior maxillary teeth strongly recurved posteriorly, slightly inflated at the crown and bearing only posterior carinae that is slightly offset laterally; atlas neural arch mediolaterally compressed but not flattened at its base, condylar surfaces irregularly figure-eight shaped; cervical vertebra synopophyses protrude below the level of the ventral edge of the centrum; short, wide fossa excavated immediately below the ventral rim of the cotyle of at least one middle cervical vertebra; hypapophysis anteroventral edge terminating in short projections of irregular length; postglenoid process capped by bony epiphysis bearing a calcified cartilage apex."

Bell and Polcyn have conducted a cladistic analysis of "Dallasaurus", concluding that this taxon should be placed within the subfamily Mosasaurinae, "well within [the family] Mosasauridae", and that, despite its small size and the "primitive" condition of its limbs, it should not be placed within the paraphyletic family Aigialosauridae.
"Dallasaurus" is the sister group to more derived mosasaurine mosasaurs such as "Clidastes", "Prognathodon", "Mosasaurus", and "Plotosaurus".

Denton is located on the northern edge of the Dallas&ndash;Fort Worth metropolitan area at the intersection of Interstate 35 and U.S. Highways 380, 377 and 77.
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of , of which  is land and  (1.36%) is water.
The city lies in the northeast edge of the Bend Arch&ndash;Fort Worth Basin, which is characterized by flat terrain.
Elevation ranges from .
Interstate 35 splits into I-35E and I-35W at the southern end of the city, and the highways continue south towards Dallas and Fort Worth, respectively.
These three cities form the area known as the "Golden Triangle of North Texas."
Lewisville Lake, a man-made reservoir named the "Urban Bass Fishing Capital of Texas", is located  south of the city.
Part of the city is located atop the Barnett Shale, a geological formation believed to contain large quantities of natural gas.

With its hot, humid summers and cool winters, Denton's climate is characterized as humid subtropical.
Dry winds reach the area in the summer and can bring temperatures of up to , although the average summer temperature is in the 90s.
The coolest month is January, with temperatures dropping down to an average minimum of .
Average snowfall in Denton is similar to the Dallas&ndash;Fort Worth average of  per year.
Denton lies on the southern end of what is commonly referred to as "Tornado Alley".
Although tornadoes rarely form, tornado watches are issued by the National Weather Service.
Flash floods and severe thunderstorms are frequent occurrences during spring months.
The city's all-time high temperature is , recorded in 1954.
The all-time recorded low is .
Denton receives approximately  of rain per year.

In 2011 intense drought struck much of Texas and a large portion of the Southwest bringing much of the region its worst drought seen since the Dust Bowl years of the 1930s.
Most of the drought in Texas ended or had it impacts ease by Spring and Summer 2012 as precipitation returned to the region.
The Texas and Southwest US drought was also accompanied by a severe heat wave that brought record setting heat to much of Texas, including but not limited to bringing a 40 day stretch of temperatures at or above  to Dallas, TX.
Drought of severe magnitude also affected a large portion of the Southeastern US, especially Georgia and South Carolina.
It is believed that a combination of La Nina and climate change had contributed to the intense drought.

The "Eagle Ford Formation" (also called the "Eagle Ford Shale") is a sedimentary rock formation from the Late Cretaceous age underlying much of South and East Texas in United States, consisting of organic matter-rich fossiliferous marine shale.
It derives its name from the old community of Eagle Ford, now a neighborhood in West Dallas, where outcrops of the Eagle Ford Shale were first observed.
Such outcrops can be seen in the geology of the Dallas–Fort Worth Metroplex, and are labeled on images with the label "Kef".
The Eagle Ford Shale is one of the most actively drilled targets for oil and gas in the United States in 2010.

Transgression continued to occur after complete deposition of the Woodbine around 92 million years ago (mya).
Creation of the Colorado Group, which first created the Eagle Ford Shale, occurred between ~92 and 88 mya.
The Eagle Ford is mostly confined within the subsurface but outcrops on west side of Dallas and continues at a 1 degree easterly prograding tilt.
The Eagle Ford Shale had sea level depths about 100 meters or 330 feet, and deposited about 20-50 kilometers from the shore.
The depositional environment in the lower beds was low energy and slightly anoxic.
This anoxic setting of the deeper oceanic waters was a result of increased amounts of CO₂ during deposition in the Cretaceous.
The lower section of the Eagle Ford consists of organic-rich, pyritic, and fossiliferous marine shales which mark the maximum flooding surface, or the deepest water during Eagle Ford deposition.
The different fauna present in the Eagle Ford suggest the waters were calm and within the photic zone.
A small member of the Eagle Ford that consists of a thin limestone unit between shales is known as the Kamp Ranch.
A small regressive highstand formed this carbonate layer towards the top of the Eagle Ford, identifiable by high energy features, such as ripple marks from storm generated waves and interbedded carbonaceous siltstones.
The overall thickness of the undivided Eagle Ford Group is 200–300 feet thick.

The National Weather Service posted flood watches stretching from Dallas, Texas, to Scranton, Pennsylvania, starting March 16.
Two strong low-pressure centers developed along a stationary front that stretched along this line.
One was located in the southern region of Illinois, and the other was located near San Antonio, Texas.
The northern low, combined with strong upper level winds, dragged large amounts moisture north from the Gulf of Mexico.
The southern low produced severe weather and heavy rain on its north side.
At one point, the national weather radar composite showed a large shield of heavy rain stretching from Texas to northern Indiana.
River flooding continued through May in some areas, causing additional problems where flash flooding from the heavy rains struck.
Numerous locations in Arkansas reported record rainfall totals from March into early April.

The "1995 Colima-Jalisco earthquake" was a 8.0 Mw earthquake which occurred on October 9, 1995 at 15:36 UTC, off the coast of Jalisco, Mexico, with least 49 people dead and 100 more injured.
The earthquake triggered a tsunami, which affected a 200 km coast.
The Cihuatlan-Manzanillo area, Colima, was more severely affected than other areas.
The earthquake was felt in Mexico City and in high-rise buildings in Dallas and Houston.

Most of the islands have dense cover of bramble "Rubus fruticosus" and bracken "Pteridium aquilinum" and grassland along the coastal fringes.
Goldenrod ("Solidago virgaurea") is locally abundant amongst the heath communities growing on the podzolic soils on the higher parts of the islands.
The heaths are classified as a poor fit somewhere between H10 and H11 and the heather ("Calluna vulgaris"), bell heather ("Erica cinerea") and bracken merge into pure bracken on the lower slopes.
A feasibility study is needed to decide if the vegetation would benefit from grazing through a Higher Level Stewardship (HLS) agreement.
With no resident botanist, together with the difficulty of recording on remote islands, there are not many plant records and the number of species for each of the Eastern Isles was finally published in 1971 from surveys carried out by J D Grose, Mr & Mrs J E Dallas and J E Lousley in 1938 and 1939.
Lousley listed 111 species of higher plants in his 1971 "Flora", and by 1999 further surveys recorded a similar number (114).
Some of the islands have species that are only found on that island and not on the other Eastern Isles such as an oak tree found by Mr and Mrs Dallas on Great Gannick.
Possible ancient woodland indicators such as butcher’s-broom ("Ruscus aculeatus"), wood spurge ("Euphorbia amygdaloides") and wood small-reed ("Calamagrostis epigejos") have also been recorded on Great Gannick.
The nationally rare orange bird's-foot ("Ornithopus pinnatus") is found on the northern side of Great Ganilly.

The islands of Great Ganinick and Little Ganinick (, "place of wild garlic") (), are part of the GCR and are in an early stage of the linkage of two islands by a tombola.
The sand bar is building from Little Ganinick, northwards, towards the larger island although the sand supply does not appear to be sufficient to link the two islands.
On the north side of Great Ganinick a "cuspate" shaped beach is forming.
Great Gannick has the only known oak tree in the Eastern Islands.
Described by Mr and Mrs Dallas in 1938 as ″.... about 2 ft 6in (0.76 m) tall in tangle of bracken, bramble and honeysuckle.
It was still there (or possibly one like it) in 1997.
Great Gannick is rich in plant species with 74 species recorded by Lousley including butcher's–broom, wood spurge, wood small–reed and white ramping–fumitory.
Little Ganiinck has grassland with strandline vegetation and seabird colonies.

A wind gust of  was reported at Dothan, with minimum barometric pressure reaching 999.2 mb.
It is reported that the worst damage occurred in Escambia and Monroe counties.
In the Escambia County city of Atmore, 100 percent of the city's residents lost electric power for some a period of time during the hurricane.
The strongest winds occurred in Escambia County, where gusts surpassed , leaving numerous structures damaged or destroyed as Dennis tracked through the western half of the county.
One man in the county was injured by a fallen tree branch.
Also, an unconfirmed tornado tore the roof off a home, forcing emergency workers to evacuate a man inside.
In Coffee County, local officials reported wind gusts had blown a carport into a wall of a house.
Marengo County received moderate damage, mostly limited to power outages and minor roof and structural damage caused by fallen trees and powerlines.
Many customers were without electric power for at least a day, and numerous county roads were covered with debris.
A person was injured in Dallas County when a tree landed on their car.
Five homes and one business were damaged due to high winds, and thousands of people county-wide experienced power outages.
Greene County reported hundreds of downed trees and powerlines causing County Roads 148 and 20 and State Highways 11, 43 and 14 to be temporarily closed.
In Forkland, a mobile home caught fire when a powerline fell on the home.
A motorist ran into a fallen tree in Boligee although did not sustain injuries.
In Perry County, 2,200 homes were without electric power for several hours, and several vehicles and homes were damaged.
A structural fire occurred in Russell County and was believed to be ignited by downed powerlines.
Wind gusts in Autauga County surpassed , causing $180,000 dollars (2005 USD) in damage.
The Robinson Springs United Methodist Church had part of its roof torn off in Elmore County, while numerous other homes sustained roof damage.
One person was injured in Montgomery County when a tree fell on their vehicle.
Another person was injured in Clay County when he ran his vehicle into a downed tree.
A structural fire occurred in Randolph County as a result of fallen powerlines.

Rainfall typically ranged from 2–4 inches (50–100 mm), although rainfall in localized areas reached .
This caused numerous rivers to overflow causing widespread, locally major, flash flooding.
The rainfall flooded numerous state and county roads, some with water up to  deep.
Parts of Interstate 20 were overwashed with water, temporarily closing the highway.
In Dallas County, a mudslide closed a section of State Highway 5.
In Greene County, the minor flooding was reported along the Tombigbee River.
Throughout the region, numerous bridges were washed away several homes were flooded, sustaining major damage in some cases.

In 2009, Dallas Abbott of Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory in New York published evidence from Greenland ice cores that multiple comet impacts caused the haze.
The spherules found in the ice may originate from terrestrial debris ejected into the atmosphere by an impact event.

The popular scenic destination Clover Point offers views south to Washington State's Olympic Mountains, east to the impressive snow clad Mount Baker--a dormant volcano—and west to the Sooke Hills of southwestern Vancouver Island.
The ocean waters off of the Point and along the Dallas Road waterfront are very popular with wind surfing and para-sailing enthusiasts thanks to strong on-shore winds.
Clover Point is also the site of one of Victoria's two sewage pumping station's and a possible location for a sewage treatment plant mandated for the city by the BC government in July 2006.

Storm and Forge meanwhile find themselves in a pristine, natural world all to themselves.
In this new Earth, time proceeds at an accelerated rate, and while only a few moments pass in the main reality, a year does for them.
Storm, still hating the man she once loved (as Forge invented the Neutralizer gun that removed her mutant powers), spends most of the year in solitude until she is finally ready to make her peace with him.
Forge meanwhile had been developing technology from the ground up, eventually creating the tools - and with circuitry sourced from dismantling his bionic arm and leg - enabling him to build a device which restores Storm's weather manipulation powers.
Storm, after months of being grounded takes to the skies again with joy, and Forge uses his shamanic magic in conjunction with her lightning bolts to open a portal back to Dallas.

The "Fenambosy Chevron" is one of four chevron-shaped land features on the southwest coast of Madagascar, near the tip of Madagascar, 180 metres high and 5 km inland.
It is composed mainly of material found on the ocean floor.
Chevrons such as Fenambosy have been hypothesized as providing evidence of "megatsunamis" caused by comets or asteroids crashing into Earth.
About 900 miles southeast from the Madagascar chevrons, in deep ocean, is Burckle crater, which Dallas Abbott discovered in 2005.
Although its sediments have not been directly sampled, cores from the area contain high levels of nickel and magnetic components associated with impact ejecta.
Burckle crater has not been dated, but Abbott estimates that it is 4,500 to 5,000 years old.

"Volume VI of the HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS:  B. Photograph Authentication 1. THE OSWALD BACKYARD PHOTOGRAPHS Paragraph (410): A profile photograph taken by the Dallas Police Department, shows that the lower half of Oswald's chin had a roughly cylindrical protrusion with a horizontal axis.
(See fig.
IV-33, JFK exhibit, No. F-194.)
When the chin was lighted by direct sunlight coming from nearly overhead, the protrusion cast a shadow over the bottom part of the chin.
The upper edge of the shadow was a nearly straight horizontal line.
The bottom of his chin, like his eyes and neck, is in such deep shadow that it is not visible.
Thus, the shape of Oswald's chin and the type and direction of illumination are responsible for the relatively flat appearance of his chin."

A blizzard (see: 1993 Storm of the Century) caught much of the Southeast off-guard in 1993, dumping  at the Atlanta airport on March 13, and much more than that in the suburbs to the north and west, as well as in the mountains.
Dallas, a suburb about 30 miles to the west-northwest, received  from the storm.
Some people were awakened by thunder and lightning in a very rare thundersnow event.
Several areas of northern Cobb County recorded over  in snowdrifts.
It is widely regarded as the snow event of the century for Atlanta, and is referred to as the "Storm of the Century", placing fifth in the city's snowfall records.
The only other recorded winter storm of comparable severity was the Great Blizzard of 1899, which struck in February.
A blizzard hit on January 9–15 crippling the city and leaving schools out for the whole week.
Ice covered roads and over eight inches of snow fell in some places with over a foot in the far northern metropolitan area.

Texas is mostly sedimentary rocks, with east Texas underlain by a Cretaceous and younger sequence of sediments, the trace of ancient shorelines east and south until the active continental margin of the Gulf of Mexico is met.
This sequence is built atop the subsided crest of the Appalachian Mountains&ndash;Ouachita Mountains&ndash;Marathon Mountains zone of Pennsylvanian continental collision, which collapsed when rifting in Jurassic time opened the Gulf of Mexico.
West from this orogenic crest, which is buried beneath the Dallas&ndash;Waco&ndash;Austin&ndash;San Antonio trend, the sediments are Permian and Triassic in age.
Oil is found in the Cretaceous sediments in the east, the Permian sediments in the west, and along the Gulf coast and out on the Texas continental shelf.
A few exposures of Precambrian igneous and metamorphic rocks are found in the central and western parts of the state, and Oligocene volcanic rocks are found in far west Texas, in the Big Bend area.
A blanket of Miocene sediments known as the Ogallala formation in the western high plains region is an important aquifer.
Texas has no active or dormant volcanoes and few earthquakes, being situated far from an active plate tectonic boundary.
The Big Bend area is the most seismically active; however, the area is sparsely populated and suffers minimal damages and injuries, and no known fatalities have been attributed to a Texas earthquake.

The North Central Plains are bounded by the Caprock Escarpment to the west, the Edwards Plateau to the south, and the Eastern Cross Timbers to the east.
This area includes the North Central Plains around the cities of Abilene and Wichita Falls, the Western Cross Timbers to the west of Fort Worth, the Grand Prairie, and the Eastern Cross Timbers to the east of Dallas.
With about  annual rainfall, gently rolling to hilly forested land is part of a larger pine-hardwood forest of oaks, hickories, elm and gum trees.
Soils vary from coarse sands to tight clays or red-bed clays and shales.

The last beds of the Cretaceous, which are also deposited directly over the Taylor formation and found east of Dallas are the Navarro beds.
Navarro beds reflect anoxic waters at the time due to the shale present, and are a result of increased volcanic activity in the south-western part of the United States.
During the end of deposition of the Taylor formation, the eustatic regression had brought sea-level down to the present day shoreline of the Gulf of Mexico.
This world-wide regression marks the slowing of sea-floor spreading and bounds the Gulfian Series in a sequence boundary.
In the western part of the country the Laramide Orogeny that was building the Rockies Mountains started to accommodate horizontal shortening by uplift versus the previous folding and thrusting accommodation.
Also during this time around 65mya a major extinction including dinosaurs took place, and is believed to have been caused by a meteorite hitting Mexico off the Yucatan Peninsula.
All of these occurrences mark the end of an important time for Texas, especially the DFW Metroplex, and brought in a new Era and Period known respectively as the Cenozoic and Paleogene.

Dallas was also affected subtly by much younger geologic formations deposited by an older, more vigorous Trinity River.
The northern hemisphere Ice age occurred in Pleistocene time, when a continental ice sheet reached as far south as Kansas during the Wisconsin glaciation.
The ice age climate had two effects on the Trinity River: It caused downcutting (few people know that there is a  deep buried canyon beneath the Trinity in Dallas) , and a wetter climate caused much more water to flow in the river.
The greater river flow generated great sedimentary river terraces.
From time to time these terrace deposits reveal bones of extinct giant mammals, such as Mastodons and Mammoths .
The Pleistocene terraces affected the development of Dallas, providing a rich alluvial soil and a perched aquifer, very useful indeed during the early years.
Downtown Dallas is built on a series of these terraces, rising subtly eastward from the Trinity river.

The DFW Metroplex sprawls across a  wide N-S trending belt of outcropping Cretaceous sediments.
Fort Worth in the west is neatly built on Early Cretaceous (Comanche Series) and Dallas in the east is built on Late Cretaceous (Gulf Series) sediments.
The Cretaceous rocks of the Comanche Series were deposited over a 20 million year interval.
The sediments deposited during these 20 million years are bound within a sequence boundary, and are defined by a major regression at the end.
The time frame of the Comanche Series span between ~118-98mya, and are responsible for the deposition of the Trinity, Fredsrickberg, and Washita Groups.
These three Groups all lie west of the Balcones Fault Zone, and span from slightly west of Weatherford to the east side of Fort Worth.
The Trinity Group is best known for the Glen Rose Formation that lies within it.
The 40-200ft thick beds of the Glen Rose formation are composed of a limestone with alternating units consisting of clay, marl, and sand.
The depositional environment of the Glen Rose was a shallow marine to shoreline environment.
This shoreline environment would eventually bring notoriety to the Glen Rose since it would eventually preserve dinosaur tracks.
This process would occur when living terrestrial creatures would roam about and look for food near the shoreline.
As they would do this, they would leave footprints and trackways that would eventually be preserved by mud depositing in and on top of the footprints.
Eventually more formations would be deposited on top of the mud layers, and build essentially a 100 million year time capsule of the trace fossil.
As time passed, weathering from water and wind caused the overlying sediments to erode and expose the footprints, and hence the reason why dinosaur tracks are present in the Glen Rose Dinosaur Valley State Park.

Dallas–Fort Worth sits above Cretaceous-aged strata, dates ranging from ~145-65 Ma (million years ago).
These Cretaceous-aged sediments lie above the eroded Ouachita Mountains and the Fort Worth Basin, which was formed by the Ouachita Orogeny.
Going from west to east in the DFW Metroplex and down towards the Gulf of Mexico, the strata gets progressively younger.
The Cretaceous sediments dip very gently (about 1°) to the east.

Woodbine Formation located between Dallas and Fort Worth consists of marine and terrestrial fossils such as concretions and trace fossils, including the last known dinosaurs in this part of Texas.
Directly east of the Woodbine which is directly west of Dallas is the Eagle Ford, which consists of sharks teeth, Plesiosaurs, crabs, and little marine lizards called Coniasaurus.
The North-West qaudrant of the I-20 and 408 loop is abundant in sharks teeth.
Directly east of 408 on Kiest Blvd is a large section of Eagle Ford Shale outcropping beneath the Austin Chalk.
This location right before you reach the top of the hill contain good amounts of sharks teeth in the Eagle Ford.
Directly beneath Dallas you can find Ammonites, although they are rare.
Sharks teeth are present and primarily easy to find in condensed zones, along with clam shells (Inoceramus) which may also be found in the Austin Chalk.
Although not viewable with the naked eye, Austin Chalk is derived and consists of millions of coccoliths, which are calcite derived from coccolithophores.

The Fort Worth Basin which lies beneath Cretaceous sediments west of Dallas formed as a foreland basin during the Ouachita orogeny.
Horizontal shortening caused flexual isostasy to bend the lithosphere.
The bent lithosphere to the west of the Ouachita mountains caused a bowl shaped depression to form, known as a foreland basin, preserving the Mississippian sediments of the Barnett Shale and other Paleozoic sediments; these sediments mostly formed before the Pangeic collision.
Significant deposits of hydrocarbons such as natural gas have economic importance as is seen in formations like the Barnett Shale.

Cretaceous formations that lie from eastern Fort Worth to east of Dallas are part of the Gulfian Series.
Easterly progration of the formations go from west to east which also slowly get younger in age, ranging from ~97Ma to 65Ma.
The Gulfian Series is known for the Cenomanian-Turonian transgression which deposited the mid-Cretaceous formations in the DFW Metroplex.
The Gulfian Series consists of three groups, from oldest to youngest being the Dakota, Colorado and Montana.
First of the Gulfian Series is the Woodbine formation which lies in the Dakota Group, and formed in a high energy depositional environment since it is composed mostly of large rounded grain quartz sediments.
Present in the Woodbine Formation is marine and terrestrial sediments and fossils, including the last known dinosaurs in this part of Texas, dating back around ~96mya.
The Woodbine ranges in thickness of 175-250ft, and thickens northward.
Terrigenous sediments that eroded from Paleozoic rocks, and weakly metamorphosed sedimentary rocks from the Ouachita Mountains in Oklahoma constitute a large part of the Woodbine.

Transgression continued to occur after the deposition of the Woodbine, and created the Colorado Group which first created the Eagle Ford Shale which lies directly beneath west Dallas.
The Eagle Ford Shale had sea level depths of around ~100m or 330ft, and occurred around 20-50 km from the shore.
The depositional environment in the lower beds was low-energy and a slightly anoxic setting.
This anoxic setting of the deeper waters in the ocean is a result several factors including increased global CO2 levels, higher sea levels, increased organic productivity and decay, Milankovitch cylicity, and restricted thermohaline currents in the Western Interior Seaway.
The lower section of the Eagle Ford consists of organic-rich, pyritic, and fossiliferous marine shale’s which marks the maximum flooding surface, or peak of deepest water in its deposition.
The different fauna that was present in the Eagle Ford suggests the waters were calm and within the photic zone.
A small member of the Eagle Ford that consists of a thin limestone unit between shale’s is known as the Kamp Ranch.
A small regressive highstand occurred to have formed this carbonate layer towards the top of the Eagle Ford, which is known due to the high energy traits it displays such as ripple marks from storm generated waves and interbedded carbonaceous siltstones.
The overall thickness of the Eagle Ford Group undivided is around 200-300 feet thick.

Sea level rose even higher in this massive transgressive event, which helped form the 300-500ft thick Austin Chalk, around ~89-85mya.
The Austin formation consists of recrystalized, fossiliferous, interbedded chalks and marls.
Exposures of Austin chalk are mainly seen in quarries, roadcuts, and stream beds where the water eroded the top soil.
Austin chalk is the well known white rock that the city of Dallas sits on.
Volcanic ashes are present in the Austin chalk, and were deposited by wind from distant erupting volcanoes and erupting igneous intrusions around 86 Ma.
These eruptions occurred along a 250 mile long by 50 mile wide belt of submarine volcanoes, which are located in present day south-central Texas.
This belt of volcanoes coincides with the trend of the Balcones Fault zone and is known as the Balcones volcanic province.
Of what consisted of these ancient volcanoes is only visible in a few places since most were buried by the Austin and Taylor Groups, and now are in the subsurface.
The presence of this volcanism during deposition of the Austin Chalk is correlated with the Laramide orogeny.
Sea level rose for conditions to be right for the deposition of the Austin Chalk, which also coincides with the maximum extent of the Cretaceous Interior Seaway.
The depths of the deposition of the Austin Chalk occurred in ~250m or 820ft of water.
The Austin Chalk formation is filled with micro-organisms known as coccoliths, and are a product of the warm waters that were displaced from the increased sea-floor spreading at the time.

People enjoy searching for fossils in the rocks around Dallas.
Remnants of dinosaurs and Late Cretaceous marine reptiles such as Mosasaur are found.
One species of Mosasaur was named after the city: "Dallasaurus turneri".

Following a storm in the southeast United States on February 12–13, snow was on the ground simultaneously in all 50 U.S. states, an event believed never to have occurred previously.
Snow was confirmed in 49 states by February 13, and small patches of remnant snow on the north face of Mauna Kea in Hawai'i were confirmed soon after.
The snow on February 12–13 forced the cancellation of Bi-Lo Myrtle Beach Marathon XIII after the 5k portion had been run the previous night.
A record depth of 12.5 inches of snow fell within 24 hours in the Dallas&ndash;Fort Worth urban metro on the 13th.
The result of the massive snowstorm led to whole school districts being shut down and over 200,000 buildings were left without power, and forced to use fire and candles to light and heat their homes.
A 1 ft tall wind-induced wave swept 3 people off of various southern Californian beaches on the 14th, slightly injuring one.
Light snow fell in both parts of Hampshire and Fife, and heavily in the mountainous regions of Sakhalin Island on the 15th.
About 1800 out of 2400  flights at Hartsfield Jackson Atlanta Airport were cancelled on February 13.
Numerous minor car accidents happened all around the Metro Atlanta area.

The fan palms (Arecaceae tribe Corypheae; palms with fan-shaped leaves) include all of the hardiest palms.
One of the possible reasons that the dwarf palmetto is so hardy is that it forms a subterranean trunk, and in the coldest of climates grows very slowly, rarely producing much of a noticeable trunk (but in warmer climates can attain up to 3 m of above-ground trunk).
The Cabbage Palmetto ("Sabal palmetto"), the state tree of both Florida and South Carolina, is very common on the southeast coast of the United States.
The species is considered hardy to USDA Hardiness Zone 8, and may survive short periods of temperatures as low as .
A number of Cabbage Palmettos grow in the North Atlanta area (formerly zone 7a according to the much outdated USDA zone map, now zone 8), as well as throughout the remainder part of the Atlanta metro area successfully unprotected and are now common in Virginia Beach, (Zone 8).
The Mexican Palmetto ("Sabal mexicana") is a close relative of the Cabbage Palmetto, native to southern Texas and northern Mexico.
It looks like a more robust version of the Cabbage Palmetto, with a larger trunk, although they may be difficult to tell apart.
Cold hardy to about  and grown throughout Texas in cities such as San Antonio, Austin, and even Dallas.
Another trunking Sabal to try in Zone 8a and warmer is "Sabal uresana", its cold hardiness is similar to "Sabal palmetto".
Typically "Sabal uresana" has blue fronds although a green leafed form exists and is supposedly even more cold hardy.

1980 - An estimated 10,000 people perished in the 1980 United States heat wave and drought, which impacted the central and eastern United States.
Temperatures were highest in the southern plains.
From June through September, temperatures remained above  all but two days in Kansas City, Missouri.
The Dallas/Fort Worth area experienced 42 consecutive days with high temperatures above , with temperatures reaching  at Wichita Falls, Texas on June 28.
Economic losses were $20 billion (1980 dollars).

November 25, 1993, vs. Miami Dolphins :On the day of the annual Thanksgiving Classic, the city of Dallas was hit with the [http://www.srh.noaa.gov/fwd/2000yearinreview.html] 4th coldest day in its history.
[http://www.dallascowboys.com/stadium_info.cfm]
Before the game, a mini-bulldozer had to scrape ice off the frozen AstroTurf.
The temperature with 32 degrees; the wind chill in single digits, and ice and snow continued to pour into the stadium's roof.
After a 77-yard touchdown run, Miami running back Keith Byars flopped down in the end zone and celebrated by making snow angels.
Not to be outdone, Cowboy Kevin Williams returned a 64-yard punt and slid on his feet the final ten yards into the end zone.

Honey Grove is a small North Central Texas town (population: 1,903 as of 2007),containing a total land area of approximately , and located roughly  east of Bonham,  north of Greenville,  east of Sherman, and  northeast of the Central Business District of Dallas.
Honey Grove was developed on flat to gently rolling terrain with scattered trees.Honey Grove is located in Fannin County the City is at an elevation ranging from approximate  above sea level.
U.S. Highway 82 and State Highway 56 traverse the City from east to west and State Roads 34, 100 and 824 enter the City in a north/south manner.
Bonham is the closest major economic center.
The Honey Grove area climate produces an annual average daily maximum temperature of 75.1 degrees, and an average annual rainfall is .

On November 19, 1981, a rapid accumulation of over a foot of snow caused the roof to collapse, requiring it to be re-inflated.
It deflated the following winter on December 30, 1982, again because of a tear caused by heavy snow.
This was four days before the Vikings played the Dallas Cowboys in the last regular-season game of the 1982 NFL season.
In the spring following that same winter, on April 14, 1983, the Metrodome roof deflated because of a tear caused by a late-season heavy snow, and the scheduled Twins' game with the California Angels was postponed.
On April 26, 1986, the Metrodome roof suffered a slight tear because of high winds, causing a nine-minute delay in the bottom of the seventh inning versus the Angels; however the roof did not deflate.

Snowfall varies greatly in this climate zone.
In locations at the southern limits of this zone and areas around the Gulf Coast, cities such as Orlando, Tampa, Houston, and New Orleans rarely see snowfall, which occurs, at most, a few times per generation.
In Southern cities farther north or inland, such as Birmingham, Atlanta, Memphis, Little Rock, Nashville, Dallas, Norfolk, Charlotte, and Raleigh, snow typically falls once or twice a season and is usually three inches or less.
Ice storms are not unusual at these locations.
However for the majority of the winter here, temperatures remain above or well above freezing, with slight plant growth.
In the northern limits of this climate zone, cities such as Philadelphia and New York City experience snow every winter, sometimes accumulating heavily although it melts more quickly than in regions to the north.

Throughout its life, Allen moved through the deep tropics on a west-northwesterly course through the tropical Atlantic Ocean, Caribbean Sea, and Gulf of Mexico before making landfall near the United States/Mexico border.
At peak strength, it passed near Haiti, causing hundreds of deaths and heavy damage.
After crossing the Gulf of Mexico, Allen weakened as it struck the lower Texas coast, causing high winds, a significant storm surge, and heavy rainfall which caused damage to southern Texas.
Overall, Allen killed 290 people and left just over $1.5 billion in damage (1980 USD), mostly within the United States and Haiti.
Due to its impact, the name Allen was retired from the six-year revolving list of Atlantic tropical cyclone names in 1981 and the name was replaced by "Andrew".
The name Andrew was subsequently retired after the 1992 season's Hurricane Andrew.
The dissipating storm precipitated the end of the Heat Wave of 1980 in places like Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas, which had recorded 69 days of  heat.

Storm surge was measured at 22 feet (6.6 m) near the heads of bays, in some places penetrating 10 miles inland.
Because of its large size, the entire Texas coast was affected, and damage was reported as far inland as Dallas.
Sustained winds were reported to be 115 mph in Matagorda, 110 mph in Victoria and 88 mph in Galveston.
Wind gusts as high as 170 mph were recorded at Port Lavaca.
Pressure at landfall was measured at 931 mb (hPa), making it the eighth most intense hurricane to strike the United States in the 20th century.
Then little-known newsman Dan Rather reported live from the Galveston Seawall during the storm, an act that would be imitated by later reporters.
This marked the first live television broadcast of a hurricane.

On September 13, Ike began a slow turn north, then northeast.
After losing strength to tropical-storm force winds near Palestine, Texas around 1 pm, it passed  to the east of Dallas and west of Little Rock, Arkansas.
Maintaining tropical storm-force winds as it moved inland, it tracked across Arkansas on the night of September 13 and also produced tornadoes across the state.
It brought heavy rainfall all along its path, but moved more quickly the farther north it went as it slowly lost tropical characteristics.

By late Thursday (22nd) morning, the contraflow lanes had been ordered opened after officials determined that the state's highway system had become gridlocked.
The Texas Department of Transportation was unprepared to execute such a large-scale evacuation.
Coordination and implementation of the contraflow plan took 8 to 10 hours as inbound traffic was forced to exit.
Police were stationed to assist with traffic flow.
Evacuees fought traffic Wednesday afternoon through mid-day Friday, moving only a fraction of the normal distance expected.
Average travel times to Dallas were 24–36 hours, travel times to Austin were 12–18 hours and travel times to San Antonio were 10–16 hours, depending on the point of departure in Houston.
Many motorists ran out of gas or experienced breakdowns in temperatures that neared 100 °F (38 °C).
Traffic volumes did not ease for nearly 48 hours as more than three million residents evacuated the area in advance of the storm.

More recent prehistoric impacts are theorized  by the Holocene Impact Working Group, including Dallas Abbott of Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory.
This group points to four enormous chevron sediment deposits at the southern end of Madagascar, containing deep-ocean microfossils fused with metals typically formed by cosmic impacts.
All of the chevrons point toward a spot in the middle of the Indian Ocean corresponding with the newly hypothesized Burckle crater proposed to be some  in diameter, or about 25 times larger than Barringer Crater.
This group posits that a large asteroid or comet impact c. 2800-3000 BCE produced a mega-tsunami at least  high, a catastrophic event that would have affected humanity's cradles of civilization.
The evidence for the proposed crater has been challenged.

Because of the short distances between major cities in the U.S. and the Confederacy, neither nation developed a long-range bomber between the wars.
Instead, bomber development focused on increased bomb load and armament.
This proved to be a disadvantage in the Pacific War and during the Second Great War with Japan.
Philadelphia and Richmond were raided routinely in both the Great War and the Second Great War, incurring heavy damage.
A Confederate air raid in 1942 killed President Al Smith; a retaliatory raid heavily damaged the Gray House, although President Featherston had moved to a heavily fortified underground bunker beneath Shockoe Hill.
New York could be reached by bombers with more fuel and less payload, and was less damaged.
In the West, U.S. bombers based in Clovis, New Mexico, caused significant damage to Dallas and Fort Worth in 1942 in daylight raids.

In late 1997, Warren Spector was asked to found the Austin branch of Ion Storm.
By keeping well clear of the troubles at the Dallas office, Ion Storm (Austin) was more successful.
It developed the highly successful and critically acclaimed Deus Ex.
With the demise of Looking Glass Studios, Eidos Interactive secured the rights to the "Thief" franchise and together with Spector tried to relocate as many of the Looking Glass team to Austin as was possible.

The storm affected the Dallas, Texas area, bringing a coating of ice to the ground after a rapid freeze.
This caused some damage ahead of Super Bowl XLV.
Snow falling from the roof of Cowboys Stadium caused several injuries.

The "January 31 – February 2, 2011 North American winter storm", also called the "2011 Groundhog Day Blizzard", was a powerful and historic winter storm, situated around the US and Canadian holiday Groundhog Day.
In the initial stages of the storm, some meteorologists predicted that the system would affect over 100 million people in the United States.
The storm brought cold air, heavy snowfall, blowing snow, and mixed precipitation on a path from New Mexico and northern Texas to New England and Eastern Canada.
The Chicago area saw between 1 and 2 feet of snow and blizzard conditions, with winds of over 60 mph.
With such continuous winds, the Blizzard kept going north and affected Eastern and Atlantic Canada.
The most notable area affected in Canada was Toronto and the Greater Toronto Area.
Blizzard conditions affected many other large cities along the storm's path, including Tulsa, Oklahoma City, Kansas City, St. Louis, Springfield, El Paso, Las Cruces, Des Moines, Milwaukee, Detroit, Indianapolis, Dayton, Cleveland, New York, New York's Capital District, and Boston.
Many other areas not normally used to extreme winter conditions, including Albuquerque, Dallas and Houston, experienced significant snowfall or ice accumulation.
The National Weather Service in Central Illinois issued their 4th "Blizzard Warning" in the entire forecast office's 16 year history.
Snowfall amounts of 20 to 28 inches were forecast for much of Northern and Western Illinois.

In Texas, the storm caused widespread disruption of road and air traffic, including flights into and out of Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport and Love Field.
Rolling blackouts were instituted across the state as high demand for electricity left the power grid overloaded and unable to handle the demand.
Governor Rick Perry asked for citizens to conserve as much electricity as they can to help ease the overloaded power grids.
ERCOT, the governing body responsible for most of the electricity distribution in Texas, reported that more than 75% of the state was affected by rolling blackouts on February 2nd; at one point demand for energy was so great that utility companies began to purchase electricity off the national grids to meet the demand.
Parts of Texas were expected to experience additional rolling blackouts Wednesday and Thursday as workers labor to get the electric systems back up and running.

Throughout the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex, multiple large school districts were closed for a record-setting 5 days in a row, letting students out a whole week because of road hazards due to ice and snow.
An ice storm affected areas as far south as Houston behind the main storm front, while three men were killed near Houston in traffic accidents.
The storm adversely affected activities in the week leading up to Super Bowl XLV, which was played at Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Texas.

Jim Cummins had an extensive family consisting of his wife, Connie of Dallas; three daughters, Chrissy Cummins and Molly Cummins, both of Dallas, and Kim of Lafayette; three sons, John Cummins of Dallas, Billy Cummins, a student of University of Oklahoma, and Doug Cummins of Waco; two brothers, Richard Cummins of New York and Bob Cummins of Sarasota; and two grandchildren.
He also coached youth baseball and basketball teams for his six children.

On May 2, 2009, the Dallas Cowboys practice facility collapsed during a wind storm.
The collapse left DeCamillis and 11 other Cowboys players and coaches injured.
DeCamillis and Rich Behm, the team's 33-year-old scouting assistant, received the most severe injuries.
DeCamillis suffered fractured cervical vertebrae and had surgery to stabilize fractured vertebrae in his neck, and Behm was permanently paralyzed from the waist down after his spine was severed.
DeCamillis received much praise from the media and fans in the months following the incident for continuing to coach in his high energy style, wearing a neck brace, only 9 days following the incident.
He was finally able to remove the brace on August 10, 2009.

Hoffman was a member of the team who flew a mass spectrometer on the European Space Agency's Giotto mission to Halley's Comet in 1986.
This instrument was developed by laboratories in four countries, three European and at UT Dallas.
It measured both the neutral and ionized constituents of the comet's coma.
The coma contains, besides water vapor and H30 ions, an extended source of carbon monoxide.
The atmosphere forms around a comet as it comes near the sun and is heated by radiation from the sun.

Dr. Hoffman is a co-investigator for the TEGA experiment that will fly on the Mars Scout Phoenix mission in 2007.
The spacecraft will land in the far northern region of Mars, above the Arctic Circle in the area that the Mars Odyssey spacecraft has found evidence for water.
An arm on the lander will dig a trench a meter deep in the surface of Mars to look for water ice and other water related substances (minerals).
These will be scooped up and analyzed in a series of small furnaces.
The effluents from the furnaces will be analyzed by the UT Dallas mass spectrometer to determine the presence of water and the mineralogical composition of soil samples.
Isotopic ratios of the principal elements in the samples will be determined and compared to the isotopic ratios of the atmospheric gases that will be measured by the mass spectrometer when it is not analyzing samples from the TEGA furnaces.

