As seen in the 1700 quake, the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake, and the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake, subduction zone earthquakes can cause large tsunamis, and many coastal areas in the region have prepared tsunami evacuation plans in anticipation of a possible future Cascadia earthquake.
However, the major nearby cities, notably Seattle, Portland, Vancouver, Victoria, and Tacoma, which are located on inland waterways rather than on the coast, would be sheltered from the full brunt of a tsunami.
These cities do have many vulnerable structures, especially bridges and unreinforced brick buildings; consequently, most of the damage to the cities would probably be from the earthquake itself.
One expert asserts that buildings in Seattle are vastly inadequate even to withstand an earthquake of the size of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake, much less the much greater one that may well occur.

Seattle player Johnny O'Brien was the nation's leading scorer at that time.
O'Brien would became the first player in the history of college basketball to score 1000 points in a single season.
He would finish the season with 1,051 points.
Against the Globetrotters, O'Brien poured in 43 points.
Johnny's brother Eddie  played point guard for Chieftains and his half court shot lifted the club to a 10 point lead.

The Chieftains led Kentucky by 11 points in the first half on two occasions.
In fact, Seattle was still leading by a score of 60–58 with seven minutes to go in the game.
However, led by the sharp shooting of Vernon Hatton and Johnny Cox, Kentucky mounted a strong rally at the end, eventually winning the game by a final score of 84-72.
Hatton led Kentucky with 30 points, Cox followed him with 24 points for the Wildcats, while Seattle was led by Baylor, who scored 25 points before fouling out.
The victory sealed Kentucky's 4th NCAA Championship.

The major earthquake that struck on the Fairweather Fault had a Richter scale reading of 7.9 and a maximum perceived intensity of XI ("Extreme") on the Mercalli intensity scale, although some sources have reported the magnitude to be as much as 8.3 on the moment magnitude scale.
The epicenter of the quake was at latitude 58.6° N, longitude 137.1°
W near the Fairweather Range,  east of the surface trace of the Fairweather fault, and  southeast of Lituya Bay.
This earthquake had been the strongest in over 50 years for this region.
The Cape Yakataga earthquake, with a reading of 8.2 on the Richter scale, occurred on September 4, 1899.
The shock was felt in southeastern Alaska cities over an area of , as far south as Seattle, Washington, and as far east as Whitehorse, Y.T., Canada.

Robertson's achievements include an NBA championship with the Milwaukee Bucks in 1971, Most Valuable Player Award in 1964, 11 All-NBA Team selections and 12 All-Star Game selections.
West played 14 seasons with the Lakers, winning the NBA championship in 1972.
He was also selected to 12 consecutive All-NBA Teams and 14 consecutive All-Star Games.
He later coached the Lakers for three seasons.
Wilkens' achievements include 9 All-Star Game selections.
After his playing career, he became a successful head coach.
He won the NBA championship in 1979 with the Seattle SuperSonics and the Coach of the Year Award in 1994.
He held the record for most games as a head coach in the NBA, with 2,487 games coached.
He was inducted to the Basketball Hall of Fame as a coach in 1998.
He became the third person that has been inducted as a player and as a coach, after John Wooden and Bill Sharman.
Two players from this draft, 3rd pick Darrall Imhoff and 5th pick Lee Shaffer, have also been selected to an All-Star Game.
Tom Sanders, the 8th pick, won 8 NBA championships with the Boston Celtics in the 1960s.
He later briefly coached the Celtics in 1978.
Al Attles, the 39th pick, also had a coaching career.
He coached the San Francisco/Golden State Warriors for 14 seasons, winning the NBA championship in 1975.

Paul Silas, the 10th pick, won three NBA championships, two with the Boston Celtics in 1974 and 1976 and one with the Seattle SuperSonics in 1979.
He also had two All-Star Game selections.
After his playing career, he coached three NBA teams, most recently with the Cleveland Cavaliers.
Jerry Sloan, the 19th pick, was selected to two All-Star Games in his playing career before becoming a head coach.
He coached the Chicago Bulls for three seasons before being fired during the 1981–82 season.
He then became the head coach of the Utah Jazz in 1988, the position he held until resigning in early 2011.
He has been inducted to the Basketball Hall of Fame as a coach.
Abdul-Rahman, 2nd pick Joe Caldwell, 4th pick Lucious Jackson and 5th pick Jeff Mullins are the only other players from this draft who have been selected to an All-Star Game.
John Thompson, the 25th pick, has also been inducted to the Basketball Hall of Hame as a coach.
After finishing his playing career, he became a successful college basketball head coach at Georgetown University.
He coached the Georgetown Hoyas for 27 seasons, winning the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) championship in 1984 and becoming the first African American head coach to win a major collegiate championship.
Aside from playing basketball, 12th pick Cotton Nash also played professional baseball in the Major League Baseball (MLB).
He played baseball for three seasons in between his basketball career.
He is one of only 12 athletes who have played in both NBA and MLB.

Bob Love, the 33rd pick, was selected to two All-NBA Teams and three All-Star Games.
Jerry Sloan, the 4th pick, was selected to two All-Star Games during his playing career before becoming a head coach.
He coached the Chicago Bulls for three seasons before being fired during the 1981–82 season.
He then became the head coach of the Utah Jazz in 1988, the position he held until resigning in early 2011.
He has been inducted to the Basketball Hall of Fame as a coach.
Twin brothers Dick and Tom Van Arsdale, who were drafted with the 10th and 11th picks, became the first set of twins to play in the NBA.
Each of them had three All-Star Game selections.
They played for different NBA teams until their last season, which they spent together as a member of the Phoenix Suns.
Dick Van Arsdale also had a coaching career.
He was the interim head coach of the Suns in 1987.
Two other players from this draft, 15th pick Flynn Robinson and 24th pick Jon McGlocklin, have also been selected to an All-Star Game.
Bob Weiss, the 22nd pick, also became a head coach after ending his playing career.
He coached four NBA teams, most recently with the Seattle SuperSonics.
Tal Brody, the 12th pick, never played in the NBA.
He joined Israeli club Maccabi Tel Aviv in 1966 and played there until his retirement in 1980, winning several Israeli league titles and an European Cup Championship in 1977.
He also became an Israeli citizen and played for Israeli national team.
Aside from playing in the NBA, 20th pick Ron Reed also played professional baseball in the Major League Baseball (MLB).
He ended his dual-sport career in 1967 to focus on baseball.
He played 19 seasons in the MLB with three teams, winning the World Series once.
He was also an MLB All-Star.
He is one of only 12 athletes who have played in both NBA and MLB.

The Seattle SuperSonics, the 11th franchise in the NBA, were founded by a group of investors led by Sam Schulman and Eugene Klein.
The Sonics were founded by  Schulman then served as president of the team and head of operations.
He hired former Chicago Bulls assistant coach Al Bianchi to became the franchise's first head coach.
The Sonics' selections included six-time All-Star Richie Guerin and one-time All-Star Tom Meschery.
Guerin, who was serving as the St. Louis Hawks' player-coach when the Sonics selected him, decided to retired from playing and became a full-time head coach for the Hawks.
He never played for the Sonics, even though he later came back from retirement to play with the Hawks.
Nine players from the expansion draft joined the Sonics for their inaugural season, but only four played more than one season for the team.
Mahdi Abdul-Rahman (then known as Walt Hazzard), who only played one season with the Sonics, was named to the 1968 All-Star Game, becoming the franchise's first All-Star.

The "1967 NBA Expansion Draft" was the third expansion draft of the National Basketball Association (NBA).
The draft was held on May 1, 1967, so that the newly founded San Diego Rockets and Seattle SuperSonics could acquire players for the upcoming 1967–68 season.
Seattle and San Diego had been awarded the expansion teams on December 20, 1966 and January 11, 1967 respectively.
The Rockets moved to Houston, Texas in  and are currently known as the Houston Rockets.
The SuperSonics moved to Oklahoma City, Oklahoma in 2008 and are currently known as the Oklahoma City Thunder.
In an NBA expansion draft, new NBA teams are allowed to acquire players from the previously established teams in the league.
Not all players on a given team are available during an expansion draft, since each team can protect a certain number of players from being selected.
The Rockets and the Sonics both selected fifteen unprotected players each, while the ten other NBA teams lost three players each.

Three other NBA teams won 50 or more games this year, getting some easy ones at the expense of the new clubs in Seattle and San Diego.
The St. Louis Hawks, now fully recovered from the retirement of Bob Pettit, posted 56 wins to win the NBA's West Division.
Rich Guerin's club got strong rebounding from their frontline and got 20-point scoring from All-Pro point guard Lenny Wilkens and center Zelmo Beaty.
The Hawks did have seven scorers over ten points per game, but lost Lou Hudson to military service for 35 games, which slowed them down.
The Hawks again also had the league's top-rated defense.
Following the season, the Hawks would relocate to Atlanta.

Seattle kicked off the regular season with a game against the San Francisco Warriors on October 13 at the Cow Palace, where they fell 114–116.
Walt Hazzard had a high scoring debut, leading the Sonics' offense with 30 points, followed by Tom Meschery with 26.
After a week off, the Sonics played in consecutive days against the other expansion franchise, the San Diego Rockets, splitting the series and thus winning their first regular season game in franchise history.
After two streaks of four and eight straight losses, the Sonics found themselves quickly near the bottom of the Western Division by the end of the first four weeks of competition.
A few surprising results stood out, including their only victory against Bill Russell's Boston Celtics in a double-header in Philadelphia, with the Celtics trailing by as much as 44 points after the first half, and an outstanding performance by rookie Bob Rule, with 47 points in a victory against the Los Angeles Lakers.
On the other hand, the SuperSonics were on the losing end of two NBA scoring records.
First, in December with a 122–160 loss against defending champions Philadelphia 76ers, that set a new NBA record for most points by a team in a quarter and a 123–154 loss against the Lakers on January that tied a franchise record for Los Angeles for most points in a game.
With six games left in the regular season the Sonics were behind two games from the Chicago Bulls in a last effort to obtain a berth in the playoffs, But in spite of defeating the Bulls in two of those six games, Chicago managed to pull away with the fourth place in the Western Division and the last spot in the playoff race, six games above the Sonics.

The twelve-man roster for the 1967–68 season consisted of three rookies from the 1967 NBA Draft and nine players from the expansion draft.
Al Bianchi's choice of player-coach Richie Guerin from the St. Louis Hawks came as a surprise to most, since Guerin had already announced his retirement, and thus did not play for the Sonics.
He would return for the 1968–69 season to play for the relocated Atlanta Hawks after Seattle traded him in the offseason.
Selecting Tom Meschery from the San Francisco Warriors was made posible after the Warriors unprotected him for the draft, after Meschery informed the San Francisco front office that he desired to join the Peace Corps.
Seattle's offer, however, was accepted by Meschery.
The SuperSonics planned to sign former Seattle University  player Charlie Williams before the start of the regular season, but league rules prohibited the Seattle franchise to offer him a contract, since Williams was expelled from college after a point shaving scandal.

The "1968-69 Atlanta Hawks season" was the team's first season in Atlanta, after their relocation from St. Louis, where the franchise played the previous thirteen seasons.
The franchise traded Lenny Wilkens to the Seattle Supersonics in exchange for Walt Hazzard.
Hazzard would help lead the Hawks to a second place finish with a record of 48 wins and 34 losses.
In the playoffs, the Hawks eliminated the San Diego Rockets in six games.
In the Western Conference Finals, the Hawks challenged the Los Angeles Lakers.
The Lakers would eliminate the Hawks in 5 games.

The "1968&ndash;69 Phoenix Suns season" was the inaugural season for the Phoenix Suns of the National Basketball Association.
In the season Suns' debut, head coach Red Kerr led the franchise to its first win in a victory over the Seattle SuperSonics.
No other season for the Suns contained as many losses as the franchise's first season, and it would not be long before the team provided the city of Phoenix with its first opportunity to host a home playoff game.
All home games were played at Arizona Veterans Memorial Coliseum.

Both John Hummer and Geoff Petrie were selected to the All-Ivy League first team.
Petrie, who led the conference in scoring with a 23.9 average in conference games, was also an All-East selection.
Thomforde was selected in the 1969 NBA Draft by the New York Knicks with the 96th overall selection in the 7th round.
Hummer led the conference in field goal percentage with 55.4%.
Petrie and Hummer would become the only Tiger teammates to both be drafted in the first round of the NBA Draft (in the same draft no less) when they were selected eighth and fifteenth overall in the 1970 NBA Draft by the Portland Trail Blazers and the Buffalo Braves.
The two were part of a trio of 1970 NBA first-round draftees from the Ivy League that included number thirteen selection Jim McMillian of Columbia.
Hummer was the first NBA draft pick by the expansion Buffalo Braves.
Petrie would share the 1971 NBA Rookie of the Year Award with Dave Cowens.
Brian Taylor was selected in the 1972 NBA Draft by the Seattle SuperSonics with the 23rd overall selection in the second round while Reggie Bird was selected by the Atlanta Hawks with the 55th overall selection in the fourth round.

Despite losing the number one draft pick to the Bucks, the Suns would win another significant coin flip.
The Suns bested the Seattle SuperSonics for the rights to ABA star Connie Hawkins.
In his freshmen year with Iowa, Hawkins was implicated, without evidence, in a point shaving scandal, which led to his expulsion from the university.
While eligible, Hawkins went undrafted in the 1964, 1965 and 1966 NBA drafts, before being officially barred from the league.
Hawkins would star in the upstart American Basketball League (ABL), winning the Most Valuable Player Award in the ABL's inaugural 1961–62 season.
Hawkins would then spend four years with the Harlem Globetrotters, before joining the Pittsburgh Pipers of the upstart American Basketball Association (ABA) in 1967.
Hawkins led the league in scoring, while leading the Pipers to the first ABA championship, and receiving the ABA's first Most Valuable Player Award in 1968.
In 1966, Hawkins' attorneys filed a $6 million anti-trust lawsuit against the NBA.
In 1969, a Time Magazine article absolved Hawkins from involvement in the point shaving scandal, leading the NBA to pay a $1.3 million settlement and allow Hawkins into the league.
"The Hawk" would become the Suns first star, making the All-NBA First Team in 1970, and appearing in four consecutive All-Star Games.
On November 19, 1976, Hawkins became the first player in Suns franchise history to have his number retired.
On September 11, 1969, the Suns waived swingman Bob Warlick.
Warlick would sign as a free agent with the Los Angeles Stars of the ABA.
On October 1, 1969, Dave "Big Daddy D" Lattin was waived.
Lattin would later sign with the Pittsburgh Condors of the ABA.

Although Hummer repeated as an All-Ivy League first team selection, Petrie failed to do so and was a second team selection.
However, Petrie was a third team All-American selection by the "Basketball News" and repeated as an All-East selection.
Petrie and Hummer were the only Tiger teammates to both be drafted in the first round of the NBA Draft (in the same draft no less) when they were selected eighth and fifteenth overall in the 1970 NBA Draft by the Portland Trail Blazers and the Buffalo Braves.
The two were part of a trio of 1970 NBA first-round draftees from the Ivy League that included number thirteen selection Jim McMillian of Columbia.
Hummer was the first NBA draft pick by the expansion Buffalo Braves.
Petrie would share the 1971 NBA Rookie of the Year Award with Dave Cowens.
Brian Taylor was selected in the 1972 NBA Draft by the Seattle SuperSonics with the 23rd overall selection in the second round while Reggie Bird was selected by the Atlanta Hawks with the 55th overall selection in the fourth round.
Ted Manakas was also selected by the Hawks with the 36th overall selection in the third round of the 1973 NBA Draft.

The "1969–70 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 3rd season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the NBA.
After the resignation of Al Bianchi, Lenny Wilkens took the role of player-coach and led the team to a 36–46 record, a six win improvement over their previous season and 3 games behind the Chicago Bulls, who got the last playoff spot in the Western Division.
Wilkens led the league in assists with 9.1 apg.

The "1970–71 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 4th season in the of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA).
In their second season with Lenny Wilkens as head coach, the Sonics finished in 8th place in the Western Conference with a 38–44 record.
Trouble arose with the injury of top scorer Bob Rule, who tore his achilles tendon three games into the season during a match against the Portland Trail Blazers and lost him for the remainder of the season.

Spencer Haywood was selected in the second round by the Buffalo Braves although he already played in the NBA with the Seattle SuperSonics in the previous season.
He left college basketball in 1969 with two years remaining in his college eligibility.
At that time, the NBA prohibited the drafting or signing of a player before his college class had graduated.
He then played in the ABA with the Denver Rockets for a season before controversially signed by the Sonics.
The league and the other NBA teams opposed the move and argued Haywood should be prohibited to join and play with the Sonics.
This led to a court case between the NBA against the Sonics and Haywood.
He argued that he should be allowed to play because he was a "hardship case", due to his position as the sole wage earner in his family.
He then won the case and was allowed to play late in the 1970–71 season.
This led to the NBA allowing college underclassmen to enter the draft provided they could give evidence of "hardship".
With the existing rules, Haywood was eligible for this year's draft, when his college class graduated.
The Braves used one of their three second-round picks to select him, hoping that they would win the rights to sign him.
However, he remained with the Sonics and never played for the Braves.

The "1971–72 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 5th season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA).
In their third season with Lenny Wilkens as head coach, the Sonics finished the regular season in sixth place in the Western Conference with a 47–35 record, their first winning record in franchise history.
Wilkens quit as head coach at the end of the season  and was replaced by former Dallas Chaparrals coach Tom Nissalke.

With the sixth overall pick in the 1971 NBA Draft, Seattle selected Fred Brown from the University of Iowa.
After months of negotiation (the Kentucky Colonels of the American Basketball Association also selected him in the 1971 ABA Draft), the Sonics signed him to a multi-year contract  Brown would go on to have a career spanning 13 seasons with the SuperSonics.

August 23: Guard Lenny Wilkens and forward Barry Clemens obtained from the Seattle Supersonics in exchange for guard Butch Beard.

Milwaukee got another huge year from Jabbar, who looked again to be the NBA's top player.
His 30.2 points per game was second in the league, and he was fourth in NBA rebounds.
Only one player, Kansas City's desperate and great Nate Archibald, scored more points.
Only two, Archibald and Seattle's controversial Spencer Haywood, tried more shots.
But Jabbar sank 55% of his shots, tops among high-scoring NBA shooters, and likely again blocked more shots than any big man in the league.
The seven footer also added five assists per game.
He was the total package.
A balanced cast of Bucks supported Jabbar en route to another 60-win campaign, their third straight.
But both teams were showing some gray streaks as West, Chamberlain, and Oscar Robertson, all all-time greats, were each clearly approaching the end of remarkable careers.
The three 60-win monsters drew most of the attention as playoff time arrived, which again rigidly followed the NBA's four divisions.
All of the NBA's eight winning teams neatly made the field.

The Sonics made only one trade during the offseason that sent All-Star Butch Beard to the Golden State Warriors and brought back a member of the original SuperSonics team, Mahdi Abdul-Rahman (previously known as Walt Hazzard) to Seattle.

The "1973–74 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 7th season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA).
Following the resignation of Lenny Wilkens as a head coach after the 1971–72 season and a poor campaign in the 1972–73 season that saw the departure of general manager Bob Houbregs, the Sonics hired Boston Celtics' stalwart Bill Russell as head coach and general manager.
With Russell at the helm, the team finished in 6th place in the Western Conference with a 36–46 record.
The Sonics' home court, Seattle Center Coliseum, was the venue for the 1974 NBA All-Star Game.

The Warriors had a first round bye.
(1) "Golden State Warriors" vs. (4) Seattle SuperSonics: "Warriors win series 4-2" (1) "Golden State Warriors" vs. (2) Chicago Bulls: "Warriors win series 4-3" (E1) Washington Bullets vs. (W1) "Golden State Warriors": "Warriors win series 4-0"

In the playoffs, the Warriors got to the Western Conference Finals by beating the Seattle SuperSonics in six games.
In the Western Finals, the Warriors looked like they were about to lose to former teammate Nate Thurmond.
The Warriors found themselves down against the Chicago Bulls 3 games to 2. The Warriors rallied to win Game 6 in Chicago and took the series with an 83–79 Game 7 triumph in Oakland.
In the NBA Finals, the Warriors faced off against the Washington Bullets.
The Warriors took the series in four straight games, including 1-point wins in Games 2 and 4. Rick Barry was named the series MVP.

Seven NBA teams out of 17 finished over .500,
but three teams, New York, Cleveland and Detroit, also had 40-42 records.
Boston drew a young 41-41 Houston team who had just won their first playoff series in franchise history against the Knicks 2-1.
The Rockets had 20-point scorers Calvin Murphy and Rudy T. but little rebounding, and the veteran Celtics got past the Rockets 4-1 and into the Conference Finals once again.
The much tougher East bracket was Washington, who had the same record Boston had, against the tough Buffalo Braves.
Hayes vs. MacAdoo was the marquee matchup.
But the Braves, who had traded Bob Kauffman, did not not have the help for their star.
Despite that, the series went the full seven in impressive fashion before the Bullets won to advance.
Randy Smith played well in place of Ernie D, but not enough to turn the series the other way.
Out West, Golden State, still under the radar with many, met a solid Seattle team.
Spencer Haywood, their outspoken star, struggled with illnesses much of this year.
Rookie center Tom Burleson and bombing guard Fred Brown picked up Haywood's slack with 20-point averages from the passes of guard Slick Watts, their first defender.
But a 124-100 wipeout loss in Game Five put the writing on the wall as the Warriors advanced.
Chicago drew a very good Kansas City team that had bounced back from the bad Bob Cousy days under coach Phil Johnson.
Nate Archibald was their star at just 5'11.
But the Bulls guards hounded Nate the Skate to just 36% shooting in the series.
Bob Love also schooled rookie forward Scott Wedman as the Bulls won 4-2.
The anticipated monster clash of Boston-Washington was set, with DC native Red Auerbach in the shadows.
Cowens and Hayes each turned in very strong performances, but did not guard each other.
Havlicek and White joined Cowens as 20-point Celtic scorers.
But somehow the Celtics lost three of the first four ballgames anyway.
The inside defense of the Bullets, combined with plenty of free throws, allowed Washington to send the vaunted world champions home.
For some, this was a title in itself.
But there was still one more round to play.
Most experts now expected Chicago to finally get their hard-earned shot in a classic offense vs. defense series against Golden State.
Plus, Thurmond was seeking revenge against his old team, which now had 6'10 Cliff Ray, a former Bull and a lesser center, in his former Warrior center spot.
The series would be a full seven-game barnburner.
The Bulls used a 90-89 Game Two win to start a 2-1 advantage.
Golden State bounced back to win Game 4  but the Bulls won Game 5, making it 3-2.
The Warriors cranked it up to win Game Six 86-72 in Chicago to force Game Seven at home.
Bulls coach, Dick Motta, was giving most of the center minutes to rebounder Tom Boerwinkle, not Thurmond.
With no bench scoring and Thurmond playing an average of just 20 minutes per game, The Warriors wiggled off the hook to win the game 83-79 and the series, 4-3.
It was a hard loss for Bulls fans who had pulled for their team all decade.

The "1974–75 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 8th season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA).
In their second season with Bill Russell as head coach and with half a roster comprised by rookies, the SuperSonics finished the regular season in 4th place in the Western Conference with a 43–39 record and reached the playoffs for the first time in franchise history.
After defeating the Detroit Pistons in 3 games in the first round in a best-of-five series, the team fell to the future champions Golden State Warriors in 6 games.

Gus Williams, the 20th pick, joined the Seattle SuperSonics after two seasons with the Golden State Warriors.
He then won the NBA championship with the Sonics in 1979.
He was also selected to two All-NBA Team and two All-Star Games.
World B. Free (then known as Lloyd Free), the 23rd pick, played for five teams in his 13 year career and was selected to one All-NBA Team and one All-Star Game.
Dan Roundfield, the 28th pick, was also drafted in the 1975 ABA Draft.
He opted to joined the ABA with the Indiana Pacers before moving to the NBA in 1976.
His achievements include include one All-NBA Team selection, three NBA All-Star Game selections, three NBA All-Star Game selections and four NBA All-Defensive Team selections.
Alvan Adams from the University of Oklahoma, who went on to win the Rookie of the Year Award in his first season, was selected 4th by the Phoenix Suns.
Adams and 6th pick Lionel Hollins are the only other players from this draft who was selected to an All-Star Game.
After retiring as a player, Hollins went on to have a coaching career.
He was twice named as the interim head coach for the Vancouver/Memphis Grizzlies in 1999 and 2004 before becoming a permanent head coach in 2009.

The Golden State Warriors last made the NBA Finals in , when they were still in San Francisco.
In the years since, they moved to Oakland, briefly lost Rick Barry to the American Basketball Association, and named Warriors great Al Attles as head coach.
Before the start of the 1974–75 season they traded future Hall of Famer Nate Thurmond to the Chicago Bulls for young center Clifford Ray.
They also drafted Jamaal Wilkes, then known as Keith Wilkes, out of UCLA.
With Barry as the offensive leader, and with Attles using a team approach to coaching, the Warriors managed to finish the season atop the Western Conference with 48 wins.
In the playoffs, they defeated the Seattle SuperSonics in six games, then eliminated Thurmond and the Bulls in seven games to advance to the Finals.

The "1975–76 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 9th season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA).
The SuperSonics finished the season in second place in the Western Conference with a 43–39 record, the same as the previous year and reached the playoffs for a second consecutive season, where they lost to the Phoenix Suns in the Conference Semifinals in six games.

On October 14 the Chicago Bulls came to Salt Lake City to face the Stars.
The game went into overtime and the Bulls pulled it out, 122-119.
In a sign of what was to come for the Stars later in the season, the Bulls later filed a lawsuit against the Stars, claiming that Utah failed to pay the Bulls a guaranteed $17,000 for playing the game at the Salt Palace.
The next day, on October 15, the Stars went on the road to face the Seattle SuperSonics again, this time in Seattle.
John Roche scored 33 points for the Stars as Utah won 108-98.

John Lucas from the University of Maryland was selected first overall by the Houston Rockets.
Adrian Dantley from the University of Notre Dame, who went on to win the Rookie of the Year Award in his first season, was selected 6th by the Buffalo Braves.
Four players from this draft, Dantley, 8th pick Robert Parish, 23rd pick Alex English and 29th pick Dennis Johnson, have been inducted to the Basketball Hall of Fame.
Parish was also named to the list of the 50 Greatest Players in NBA History announced at the league's 50th anniversary in 1996.
Dantley was selectod to two All-NBA Teams and six All-Star Games.
Parish won three NBA championships with the Boston Celtics in the 1980s.
Later in his career, he added another championship in 1997 with the Chicago Bulls.
His other achievements include two All-NBA Team selections and nine All-Star Game selections.
English's achievements include three All-NBA Team selections and eight All-Star Game selections.
Johnson won the NBA championships, along with the Finals Most Valuable Player Award, with the Seattle SuperSonics in 1979.
He then won two other championships with the Celtics in the 1980s.
He was selected to two All-NBA Teams, five All-Star Games and nine All-Defensive Teams.

With Adams fortifying the center position, and with new addition Paul Westphal and Dick Van Arsdale providing the scoring punch, the Suns reached the playoffs for only the second time, finishing with 42 wins.
The Suns defeated the Seattle SuperSonics in six games of the conference semifinals, before achieving a major upset in dethroning the previous year's champions the Golden State Warriors in seven games.
The Suns made it to their first NBA Finals.

(1) "Golden State Warriors", (2) "Seattle SuperSonics" & (3) "Phoenix Suns" have first round byes.

Kent Benson from Indiana University was selected first overall by the Milwaukee Bucks.
Walter Davis from the University of North Carolina, who went on to win the Rookie of the Year Award in his first season, was selected fifth by the Phoenix Suns.
Davis was also selected to both the All-NBA Team and the All-Star Game in his first season.
He collected a total of six All-NBA Team selections and two All-Star Game selections.
Three other players from this draft, second pick Otis Birdsong, third pick Marques Johnson and seventh pick Bernard King, were also selected to both the All-NBA Team and the All-Star Game.
Birdsong was selected to four All-NBA Teams and one All-Star Game; Johnson was selected to five All-NBA Teams and three All-Star Games; and King was selected to four All-NBA Teams and four All-Star Games.
Jack Sikma, the eight pick, won the NBA championship with the Seattle SuperSonics in 1979 and was selected to seven consecutive All-Star Games.
Rickey Green, the 16th pick, Norm Nixon, the 22nd pick, and Eddie Johnson, the 39th pick, are the only other players from this draft who were selected to an All-Star Game.
Two players drafted went on to have coaching careers in the NBA: 33rd pick Eddie Jordan and 53rd pick John Kuester.
Jordan has coached three teams in nine seasons, including five seasons with the Washington Wizards.

The Blazers won 58 games in the 1977-78 NBA season, but Bill Walton suffered the first of a series of devastating foot injuries late in the season and was lost for much of the year.
Walton won the league's MVP, but the Blazers missed his leadership and savvy, losing in six games of the conference finals to the Seattle SuperSonics.
The Sonics made the Finals the next two seasons, winning in 1979.
The Blazers would not make the finals again until 1990.
As for Walton, he forced to sit the 1978-79 season after his request for a trade was denied, citing unethical treatment of player injuries by the Blazers' front office.
Walton signed with the Clippers the next season, but only made sporadic appearances for the next six years.
His career would be revived in Boston, winning another championship in  1986 while winning the NBA Sixth Man of the Year.

The "1977–78 NBA season" was the 32nd season of the National Basketball Association.
The season ended with the Washington Bullets winning the NBA Championship, beating the Seattle SuperSonics 4 games to 3 in the NBA Finals.

The "1977–78" season was the eighth season of the Portland Trail Blazers in the National Basketball Association (NBA).
Fresh off their first NBA Championship win the previous season, the Blazers led the league with a franchise-best 58–24 record, earning a first-round bye in the 1978 NBA Playoffs.
However, they were defeated by the eventual Western Conference champion Seattle SuperSonics four games to two.

The "1977–78 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 11th season of the franchise in the National Basketball Association (NBA).
With a disappointing 5–17 start, the Sonics replaced coach Bob Hopkins with future Hall of Famer Lenny Wilkens, who led the team to a 47–35 finish.
After upsetting the defending champions Portland Trail Blazers in the Western Conference Semifinals, the Sonics made their first trip to the NBA Finals, where they fell to the Washington Bullets in 7 games.

(1) Philadelphia 76ers vs. (3) "Washington Bullets": "Bullets win series 4-2" After being swept in their previous trip to the NBA Finals, the Bullets lost Game 1 on the road against the Seattle SuperSonics, and a 19-point lead vanished in the process.
In Game 4, the Bullets rose to the occasion beating the Sonics 120-116 to even the series at 2 games apiece.
After losing Game 5 in Seattle, the Bullets kept their hopes alive with a dominating 117-82 win at the Capital Centre.
Game 7 returned to Seattle and the Bullets were a heavy underdog.
Kevin Grevey suffered a sprained wrist above his shooting hand, and Bob Dandridge was forced to see some action at guard.
Dandridge would play strongly and scored 19 points to tie with Charles Johnson, who hit a half court shot at the end of the 3rd quarter, for the team high.
Wes Unseld scored 15 points while pulling down 9 rebounds as the Bullets emerged with a 105-99 victory to win their first NBA Championship.

With 90 seconds left, Seattle whittled the lead from 11 points down to four, but Mitch Kupchak came up with a three-point play.
Fred Brown, who finished with 21 points off the bench, hit a short jumper, then Paul Silas got a tip-in to cut it to 101-99.
Silas then fouled Wes Unseld, a 55-percent shooter from the line during the playoffs.
He hit two free throws, and moments later Washington sealed it with a Bob Dandridge dunk, 105-99.

The Bullets, behind Kevin Grevey's 27 and Elvin Hayes's 21 points, held a 19-point lead in the fourth quarter at the Seattle Center Coliseum.
But, the Sonics staged a comeback in front of the home crowd, led by "instant offense" guard Fred Brown.
Brown scored 16 points in the last nine minutes to finish with 32 and give the SuperSonics the win.

The "1978 NBA World Championship Series" was the championship round of the 1977-78 NBA season.
The Seattle SuperSonics had a disappointing start to the season, going 5–17 to begin with.
Bob Hopkins, who replaced former Boston Celtics center Bill Russell as coach, was fired and Lenny Wilkens returned for a second tour of duty.
The Sonics were led by center Jack Sikma, forwards Fred Brown, Paul Silas and John Johnson, and guards Dennis Johnson and Gus Williams.
With Wilkens' experience being a key factor, the Sonics turned their season around, finishing with 47 wins and the fourth seed in the West.
In the playoffs, they defeated the Los Angeles Lakers in a three-game miniseries, then upset the top-seeded and defending champion Portland Trail Blazers in six games, before announcing their finals debut with a six-game win over the Denver Nuggets.

The "1978 NBA Playoffs" was the postseason tournament of the National Basketball Association's 1977-78 season.
The tournament concluded with the Eastern Conference champion Washington Bullets defeating the Western Conference champion Seattle SuperSonics 4 games to 3 in the NBA Finals.
Wes Unseld was named NBA Finals MVP.
To date, it remains the only NBA title that the Washington Bullets have ever won.

It was the third NBA Finals appearance and first title for the Bullets, founded in 1961.
The Sonics made the Finals for the first time in their 11-year existence.
This would be the first of two straight meetings in the Finals between the Bullets and Sonics, with Seattle winning the title the next year.

The "1978&ndash;79 Phoenix Suns season" was the 11th season for the Phoenix Suns of the National Basketball Association and the first time they reached the 50-win mark to end the regular season.
The team repeated a second place finish in an expanded Pacific division and the Western Conference's second-best record, thus earning a spot in the playoffs, the franchise's first time extending the season in back-to-back seasons.
For the first time since the '75&ndash;'76 team, the Suns returned to the Western Conference Finals, before being dispatched by Pacific division champion Seattle in seven games.
The Suns were led by head coach John MacLeod and played all home games in Arizona Veterans Memorial Coliseum.

(1) "Washington Bullets" vs. (2) San Antonio Spurs: "Bullets win series 4-3" The triumph would set up a rematch with the Seattle SuperSonics in the NBA Finals.
In the Finals, the Bullets would squeak out a close victory in Game 1 by a score of 99-97.
However, the Sonics would rally to win the next 4 and take the series in 5 games.

The Sonics won a close one in OT 114–112, staving off a late Bullets comeback behind 36 points by Gus Williams and 32 by Dennis Johnson.
Williams and Johnson dominated the Bullets' guards all series, as they were plagued by poor shooting.
Johnson also had four blocks in the game, the last on Kevin Grevey with 4 seconds left to ensure the Seattle victory.

Seattle dominated this game, which wasn't as close as the final margin indicated.
Gus Williams scored 31 points, Jack Sikma had 21, and Dennis Johnson had a fine all-around game with 17 points, 9 rebounds, and two blocked shots.

The Bullets controlled the game and led by 18 in the fourth, but Seattle mounted a furious comeback to tie it at 97. Larry Wright, who had 26 points off the bench, drove to the basket as time ran down and had his shot blocked by Dennis Johnson, but the referees called a foul on Johnson, sending Wright to the line with one second left.
Wright hit two of three foul shots (NBA rules at the time awarded an extra free throw attempt when a team was in the penalty foul situation) to win the game.

This was a rematch of the 1978 NBA Finals, which the Bullets won 4–3.
Seattle made a key offseason trade sending Marvin Webster to the New York Knicks for Lonnie Shelton.
Other than that, both teams' rosters stayed virtually intact.
Unlike the previous year, both teams finished 1-2 in the NBA, with the Bullets topping the league at 54 wins; the Sonics with 52 wins.
In the playoffs, Seattle defeated the Los Angeles Lakers 4–1 and the Phoenix Suns 4–3, while Washington eliminated the Atlanta Hawks 4–3 and the San Antonio Spurs 4–1.
Both earned a first-round bye.

The "1979 NBA Playoffs" was the postseason tournament of the National Basketball Association's 1978-79 season.
The tournament concluded with the Western Conference champion Seattle SuperSonics defeating the Eastern Conference champion Washington Bullets 4 games to 1 in the NBA Finals.
The Sonics earned their first (and as of 2012, only) NBA title.
Dennis Johnson was named NBA Finals MVP.

The Lakers earned the top pick of the 1979 NBA Draft (traded as compensation by the New Orleans Jazz after signing Gail Goodrich in 1976) and selected Magic Johnson from Michigan State.
While Magic dazzled in his rookie season, Kareem would enjoy an MVP campaign in the Lakers' 60–22 regular season.
In the playoffs, the Lakers eliminated the Phoenix Suns and erstwhile defending champions Seattle SuperSonics in a pair of five-game series to advance to the NBA Finals.

The "1981-82 NBA season" was the Spurs' 6th season in the NBA and 15th season as a franchise.
George Gervin was the winner of a fourth scoring title in five years with 32.3 points per game.
The Spurs won their second straight division title with a record of 48-34.
In the playoffs the Spurs beat the Seattle Supersonics in 5 games.
In the Western Finals, the Spurs would be swept in 4 straight by the Los Angeles Lakers.

The Spurs had a first round bye.
(2) "San Antonio Spurs" vs. (3) Seattle SuperSonics: "Spurs win series 4-1" (1) "Los Angeles Lakers" vs. (2) San Antonio Spurs: "Lakers win series 4-0"

(4) Seattle SuperSonics vs. (5) "Portland Trail Blazers": "Blazers win series 2–0" (1) "Los Angeles Lakers" vs. (5) Portland Trail Blazers: "Lakers win series 4–1"

The "1984-85 NBA season" was the Kings 36th season in the NBA and their 13th season in the city of Kansas City.
The Kings finished with a 31-51 record, placing them in sixth place in the Midwest Division, and in a three-way tie for ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference, along with the Seattle SuperSonics and the Los Angeles Clippers.
As a result, the Kings did not qualify for the NBA Playoffs in their final season in Kansas City.

This draft is also known for the number of players who made important contributions to the sport of basketball outside of the court.
For example, Nate McMillan had a highly successful run with the Seattle SuperSonics as a player and then as head coach, and then spent seven seasons as head coach of the Portland Trail Blazers.
Scott Skiles is the current coach of the Milwaukee Bucks and also the first coach to lead the Chicago Bulls to the playoffs in the post-Jordan era.
Larry Krystkowiak, a former Bucks head coach, was hired in April 2011 as the new head coach at the University of Utah.
John Salley won four championship rings with three different NBA teams (Detroit Pistons, Chicago Bulls and Los Angeles Lakers) before becoming one of the hosts of "The Best Damn Sports Show Period" on Fox Sports Network.
Jay Bilas is an ESPN college basketball analyst.
Mark Price served as an assistant coach at Georgia Tech, a shooting consultant with Memphis (one season) and Atlanta (two seasons), a shooting coach for Golden State (one season), and in December 2011 was named Player Development Coach for the Orlando Magic.

As for the Rockets, their stay at the top of the Western Conference would only be temporary, as Ralph Sampson fell down with a knee injury that eventually curtailed his career.
The Rockets would only win 42 games, and were bounced out of the playoffs' second round by the Seattle SuperSonics.
The 'Twin Towers' were disbanded after Sampson was traded to the Golden State Warriors early in the 1987-88 NBA season.
The Rockets would not return to the finals until their championship season of .

Thanks to the 1984 trade of Gerald Henderson and the subsequent fall of the Seattle SuperSonics, at the end of the 1985-86 the Celtics owned not only the best team in the NBA but also the second pick in the 1986 NBA Draft.
The Celtics drafted Len Bias with the pick and had high hopes for the young University of Maryland star.
Fans believed Bias had superstar potential, and that he would be the perfect complement to the aging, but still strong, Celtics.
The hope was that his presence would ensure that the franchise would remain a powerhouse after Bird, McHale and Parish retired.
Unfortunately, Bias died 48 hours after he was drafted, after using cocaine at a party and overdosing.
It would be the first in a long string of bad luck for the Celtics.

The "1986–87 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 20th season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association.
Bernie Bickerstaff returned for his second season as head coach of the franchise and, despite little improvement over their previous season's 31–51 record, managed to clinch a spot in the playoffs and reach the Western Conference Finals, losing in four games to the Los Angeles Lakers.

The NBA's 37th All-Star Game was played on February 8, 1987 at Seattle's Kingdome.
Seattle SuperSonics power forward Tom Chambers was the game's MVP.

After being eliminated in the Western Conference Finals a year earlier, the Lakers returned to the NBA Finals and were rewarded with homecourt advantage, besting the Celtics by accumulating a 65-17 record.
During the season head coach Pat Riley made an offensive adjustment by assigning guard Magic Johnson as the focal point of the offense, while acquiring Mychal Thompson from the San Antonio Spurs before the trade deadline in a successful effort to lessen center Kareem Abdul-Jabbar's minutes heading into the post-season.
The Lakers swept the Denver Nuggets, then beat the Golden State Warriors in five, before earning another playoff sweep against the Seattle SuperSonics in the conference finals.

With the well-rested Lakers coming off a four-game sweep of the Seattle SuperSonics and a tired and hobbled Celtic team coming off a grueling seven-game win over the Detroit Pistons, the result was anticlimactic.
Magic Johnson led a 126-113 victory with 29 points, 13 assists, eight rebounds and no turnovers.
James Worthy, on the receiving end of many of Johnson's passes, had 33 points and nine rebounds.
The Lakers ran 35 fast breaks in the first two quarters and led by 21 at intermission.

Jordan was indisputably great, and Oakley, who led the league in total rebounds (1,066), was outstanding.
Still, the Bulls lacked a quality supporting cast.
They took a major step toward alleviating that problem at the 1987 NBA Draft, when Vice President of Basketball Operations Jerry Krause acquired two players who would be vital cogs in Chicago's future championship machine.
With two picks in the top 10, Krause selected Olden Polynice at No. 8 and Horace Grant at No. 10.
He then traded Polynice and draft considerations to the Seattle SuperSonics for Scottie Pippen, whom the Sonics had grabbed with the fifth pick.

Oakley and the Los Angeles Clippers' Michael Cage engaged in a nip-and-tuck battle for the league's rebounding title, which came down to the last day of the regular season.
On April 22 against Cleveland, Oakley put the pressure on Cage by pulling down 35 rebounds, the second-highest total in Bulls history behind Tom Boerwinkle's 37 in 1970.
Two days later, however, Cage grabbed 30 boards in a game against Seattle, just enough to edge Oakley by the slimmest of margins, 13.03 per game to 13.00.
Cage played in 10 fewer games than Oakley, however, so Oakley led the NBA in total rebounds for the second consecutive year, with 1,066.

The "1987–88 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 21st season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA).
It was Bernie Bickerstaff's first season with a winning percentage above .500,
coaching the Sonics to the 1988 NBA Playoffs where they lost in five games to the Denver Nuggets in the first round.

The Heat were formed and owned by a group headed by Zev Buffman and former NBA player Billy Cunningham.
Former Detroit Pistons assistant coach Ron Rothstein was hired as the franchise's first head coach.
The Heat used their first pick to select former third-round pick Arvid Kramer from the Dallas Mavericks.
Prior to the draft, the Heat agreed on a deal to select Kramer, who had not played in the NBA since the 1979–80 season, from the Mavericks in exchange for a first-round pick in the 1988 Draft.
The Heat also agreed three other deals not to select a particular player from the Los Angeles Lakers, the Boston Celtics and Seattle SuperSonics.
The Heat's other selections included four former first-round picks, Billy Thompson, Jon Sundvold, Darnell Valentine and Dwayne Washington.
However, Valentine and another draftee, Fred Roberts, were immediately traded to the Cleveland Cavaliers and Milwaukee Bucks respectively.
The Heat also selected West German center Hansi Gnad, who had never played in the NBA.
Four players from the expansion draft joined the Heat for their inaugural season, but only one played more than three seasons for the team.
Sundvold played four seasons with the Heat until his NBA career ended in 1992.

The two teams met again in the 1989 NBA Finals.
Heading into the rematch, the Pistons took the league's best record with 63 wins; the Lakers not far behind with 57 wins.
However, the Lakers appear well-rested after sweeping the first three playoff rounds against the Portland Trail Blazers, Seattle SuperSonics and Phoenix Suns, setting a playoff record 11-0 through the first three rounds, an accomplishment the Lakers would also achieve in 2001.
The Pistons on the other hand won the first seven games of the playoffs, but were pushed by the Chicago Bulls in the conference finals before winning in six games.

Prior to the season, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar announced that the 1988-89 season was to be his last.
Therefore his 'retirement tour' consisted of pregame tributes in every arena to pay homage to the retiring Lakers captain.
The Lakers won 57 games that year, and steamrolled through the NBA finals, going 11-0 in a sweep of the Portland Trail Blazers, Seattle SuperSonics and Phoenix Suns.
Magic Johnson won the MVP award that year.
Prior to the season, Lakers owner Jerry Buss offered naming rights to The Forum, which was accepted by the Great Western Bank and subsequently renamed the arena as the Great Western Forum, which paved the way to a flurry of naming rights acquisitions in almost every sporting venue in the United States.

During the season, the Lakers had won their division, with Magic Johnson collecting his second MVP award.
The team swept the first three playoff series (Pacific Division foes: Portland, Seattle, and Phoenix), resulting in a rematch with the Detroit Pistons in the Finals.
Johnson and Byron Scott were injured, with Scott suffering a hamstring injury in practice before Game 1 and Johnson pulling a hamstring during Game 2. The Lakers had won two straight NBA championships in 1987 and 1988.

The season was highlighted by Tom Chambers setting a franchise record for points scored in one game, when on February 18, he scored 56 points on the road against Golden State.
Just over a month later, he would break his own record when he scored 60 against Seattle on March 24.

The "1989–90 Seattle SuperSonics season" 22nd season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA).
It was Bernie Bickerstaff's last season as head coach of the Sonics and the last full season of Xavier McDaniel in a Seattle uniform, as he was traded midway through the following season.
Seattle finished the season with a 41–41 record, losing the eighth seed in the Western Conference to the Houston Rockets, who had the same record but were ahead after tie-breaks, and thus did not reach the playoffs.

The "1990 NBA Draft" took place on June 27, 1990, in New York City, New York.
This draft produced only one perennial All-Star,Gary Payton.
Among the 54 picks,  Payton is considered by far the best pick of the draft.
Payton went on to be considered one of the greatest point guards of all time.
He became a nine-time All-Star, achieved the NBA Defensive Player of the Year award in 1996, won an NBA Championship with the Miami Heat in 2006 and holds many statistical records during his tenure with the now defunct Seattle SuperSonics.

However, after advancing to the Western Conference Finals with a 3–2  win over the Seattle SuperSonics in the first round and a 4–1 win over the Utah Jazz in the conference semifinals, the Blazers were denied a second straight trip to the NBA Finals, falling to the Lakers in six games.

The "1990–91 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 23rd season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA).
Head coach Bernie Bickerstaff was replaced by his former assistant K.C.
Jones, and went on to occupy the desk of vice-president of Basketball Operations for Seattle, resigning months later to accept a job as general manager of the Denver Nuggets.
The Draft Lottery gave the Supersonics the No. 2 pick, that was used to select future All-Star point guard Gary Payton.
Substantial changes were made on the roster, first by trading Sonics referent Xavier McDaniel to the Phoenix Suns during the first months of competition, followed by Dale Ellis, whose off-the-court problems were the focus of much unwanted attention, who was sent to Milwaukee, and forward Olden Polynice to the Los Angeles Clippers, both trades occurring days after the All-Star break.
Seattle would finish with a 41–41 record like the previous season, this time being able to reach the playoffs as the eighth seed in the Western Conference, where they lost in the first round against the Portland Trail Blazers in 5 games.

The "1991–92 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 24th season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA).
It was George Karl's first season as head coach of the SuperSonics, returning after a four-year absence from coaching in the NBA, to replace K. C. Jones.
Seattle finished the season with a 47–35 record, reaching the playoffs as the fifth seed in the Western Conference, where they lost the Conference semifinals to the Utah Jazz in five games.

The "1992–93 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 25th season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA).
With George Karl in its second season as the SuperSonics coach, the team improved their 47–35 record from the previous season to 55–27 and reached the 1993 Playoffs as the third seed in the Western Conference.
After defeating the Utah Jazz and the Houston Rockets in the first two rounds, they lost the Conference Finals against the Charles Barkley-led Phoenix Suns.

Frustrated by the constant losing and the desire to play for a contender, Barkley demanded a trade, which he got when he was traded to the Phoenix Suns for Jeff Hornacek, Tim Perry and Andrew Lang.
Moving to the then-brand new America West Arena from the Arizona Veterans Memorial Coliseum, the Suns would win 62 games in the 1992–93 season, a franchise record.
Barkley's efforts won him the MVP award.
The playoffs, however, were no cakewalk for the Suns, as they lost the first two games to the Los Angeles Lakers at home before winning three straight.
In the second round the Suns defeated the San Antonio Spurs in six, and were again pushed to a decisive game by the Seattle SuperSonics before ultimately winning in the conference finals.
For the Suns, it was their first NBA finals appearance since 1976 and second overall.

The "Scotts Mills earthquake", also known as the ""Spring Break Quake"", occurred in the U.S. state of Oregon on March 25, 1993 at 5:34 AM Pacific Standard Time.
With a local magnitude of 5.6 and a maximum perceived intensity of VII ("Very Strong") on the Mercalli intensity scale, it was the largest earthquake in the Pacific Northwest since the Elk Lake and Goat Rocks earthquakes of 1981.
Ground motion was widely felt in Oregon's Willamette Valley, the Portland metropolitan area, and as far north as the Puget Sound area near Seattle, Washington.

In 1993-94, Michael Jordan shocked the NBA by announcing his retirement.
This meant that various teams in the league had an opportunity to contend for a championship.
The Hawks hired Hall of Famer Lenny Wilkens as their new coach.
Wilkens was a star guard for the franchise when it was based in St. Louis in the 60's.
Wilkens was quickly moving up the all-time coaching wins list after successful runs with the Seattle Supersonics and Cleveland Cavaliers.
Wilkens employed a defensive system which benefited several members of the team.
Guards Stacy Augmon and Mookie Blaylock were both named to the NBA All-Defensive team.
The Hawks would emerge in first place when the first half of the season was complete.
Despite being in first place in February, the Hawks would trade franchise leading scorer Dominique Wilkins to the Los Angeles Clippers for Danny Manning.
By the end of the season, the Hawks finished first overall in the Eastern Conference with a record of 57 wins and 25 losses.
Entering the playoffs, the Hawks struggled, as they needed the full five games to get past the Miami Heat in the Eastern Conference quarterfinals.
In the Eastern Conference semifinals, the Hawks were upset by the Indiana Pacers in 6 games.

The Nuggets posted a 42-40 record and made the playoffs for the first time in 4 years.
The Nuggets qualified for the playoffs as the 8th seed.
The first round saw the Nuggets matched up with the Seattle Supersonics.
The Sonics had posted a league best 63-19 record.
The Nuggets lost the first two games of the series.
Upon arriving in Denver, the Nuggets used the shot blocking presence of Dikembe Mutombo to match up with the Sonics.
Along with career performances by Reggie Williams, Brian Williams, and Robert Pack, the Nuggets evened the series.
The series went back to Seattle for the 5th game.
The Nuggets rallied to tie the game and force overtime.
The Nuggets would emerge with a 1-point victory and became the first 8th seeded team to beat a # 1 seed.
To punctuate the win, Mutombo was on his back holding the ball and smiling after the buzzer.
In the second round, the Nuggets dropped their first 3 games to the Utah Jazz.
Despite the threat of elimination, the Nuggets would rally to win the next 3 games and force a 7th game.
The postseason run would end as they lost 91-81.

The "1993-94 Indiana Pacers season" was Indiana's 18th season in the NBA.
The Pacers would undergo several changes as the club traded fan favorite Detlef Schrempf to the Seattle SuperSonics for Derrick McKey.
The Pacers would play .500
ball until April.
By winning the final 8 games of the season, the Pacers were able to grab the 5th seed in the Eastern Conference and close out the season with a 47-35 record.

The "1993–94 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 26th season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA).
In the third season with George Karl as head coach the Sonics finished the season with a franchise best 63–19 record and made the Playoffs as the number one seed in the Western Conference for the first time since the 1978–79 season, where the SuperSonics won their first NBA Championship.
However, the Sonics didn't make it past the first round, losing to the Denver Nuggets in five games after taking a 2–0 lead in the series.
It was the first time in NBA Playoffs history that a number 8 seed defeated a number 1 seeded team.

Hakeem Olajuwon, then named Akeem, was drafted first overall by the Houston Rockets in the 1984 NBA Draft.
Olajuwon quickly rose into an NBA All-Star, and in his second season, he led the Rockets to the 1986 NBA Finals, where they would lose in six games to the Boston Celtics.
However the Rockets would gradually dismantle that team, and by 1991, only Olajuwon remained from that 1986 squad.
Midway to the 1991–92 season Rudy Tomjanovich took over as head coach and almost led the team to the playoffs.
By 1993 the Rockets were on the rise, with Olajuwon transforming into an all-around player while remaining a defensive presence in the paint.
The Rockets would come within a game of the conference finals that year, losing to the Seattle SuperSonics in seven games.
The Rockets then started 15–0 the next season en route to a 58–24 record, finishing behind Seattle in the West.
In the playoffs they defeated the Portland Trail Blazers 3–1, the Phoenix Suns 4–3 (after losing the first two games at home), and the Utah Jazz 4–1 to advance to the finals.

The "1994–95 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 27th season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA).
After a shocking first round exit in the 1994 NBA Playoffs against the Denver Nuggets the Seattle franchise would once again exit early in the 1995 Playoffs, losing in four games to the Los Angeles Lakers in the first round.
For the duration of the season, the Sonics switched venues and played their home games at the Tacoma Dome while their original stadium, the Seattle Center Coliseum, was being rebuilt to keep pace with NBA standards.

The Rockets' championship reign would end in 1996, where they were swept by the Seattle SuperSonics in four games of the second round.
The Sonics were also the last team to beat the Rockets in the playoffs prior to their two-year championship reign, when they defeated them in seven games of the second round in 1993.
That year, the Rockets won 48 games and achieved the fourth seed.
The following offseason, the Rockets attempted to make it back to the finals by adding former NBA MVP Charles Barkley.
However, age and injuries would take its toll, and the closest the Rockets would achieve after their two-year championship reign was a six-game loss to the Utah Jazz in the 1997 Western Conference Finals.
As of 2012, this is the Rockets' last NBA Finals appearance.

The "1995–96 NBA season" was the 50th season of the National Basketball Association (NBA), although the league didn't celebrate this anniversary until the following season.
The season ended with the Chicago Bulls defeating the Seattle SuperSonics 4 games to 2 in the NBA Finals to win the franchise's 4th championship.

The "1995–96 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 28th season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA).
After two consecutive playoffs appearances losing in the first round, the Sonics finished the regular with a franchise best 64–18 record, surpassing the record from the 1993–94 season, and earned their third number one seed in the Western Conference in franchise history.
Led by Shawn Kemp and Defensive Player of the Year Gary Payton, the SuperSonics defeated the Sacramento Kings in the first round, swept the reigning champions Houston Rockets and got past the Utah Jazz in seven games in the Conference Finals to reach their first NBA Finals since 1979, where they would face the Chicago Bulls.
After an 0–3 start in the series, Seattle managed to win their next two home games, but eventually lost the series in game six in Chicago.

The "1996 NBA Finals" was the championship series of the 1995-96 NBA season of the National Basketball Association.
The Seattle SuperSonics (64–18) of the Western Conference took on the Chicago Bulls (72–10) of the Eastern Conference, with the Bulls holding home court advantage.
The series was played under a best-of-seven format.

The Seattle SuperSonics, coached by George Karl and led by All-Stars Gary Payton and Shawn Kemp, emerged as contenders in the Western Conference by 1992.
The Sonics broke through in the 1993 NBA Playoffs, pushing the eventual Western Conference champion Phoenix Suns to a seventh game in the conference finals.
Then in the 1993–94 season, the Sonics finished atop the league with 63 victories.
However, in the greatest playoff upset in NBA history, the Sonics lost 3 games to 2 to the eighth seeded Denver Nuggets, who finished 21 games behind Seattle in the West.
Seattle would once again be upset in the first round of the 1995 playoffs against the Los Angeles Lakers.
By this time, Seattle had a formidable All-Star duo in Payton and Kemp, plus role players in Detlef Schrempf, Nate McMillan, Sam Perkins and Hersey Hawkins.

Game two was fortunate for Seattle in the first quarter, with a 27–23 lead.
However Seattle would once again lose the lead.
Despite attempts at catching up by Gary Payton in the second quarter, Toni Kukoč clinched the Bulls' win in the third quarter, with a final score of 92 to 88.
In the victory, Dennis Rodman tied an NBA Finals record with 11 offensive rebounds.

Seattle would once again deny the Bulls the championship, stretching the series to six games.
Payton had this to say: "We feel great.
We knew we could play with this team.
It just took too long.
We should have come with this a little earlier."
[http://www.nba.com/history/finals/19951996.html]
Shawn Kemp's performance in this game was considered by many to be his best in a Seattle uniform.

The 1996 NBA Finals would be the last Finals appearance of the Seattle SuperSonics.
The Sonics would win the Pacific Division again in 1997 and 1998, but fell to the second round of the playoffs each time.
The series was George Karl's only Finals appearance in his coaching career to date.
In 2008, the Sonics franchise moved to Oklahoma City and became the Thunder.
They would make the finals four years later after the move.
This was also the last time a Seattle-based team played for a major professional sports championship until Super Bowl XL in 2006, when the Seattle Seahawks lost to the Pittsburgh Steelers.
In terms of overall sports leagues, the city would later enjoy a pair of championships when the  WNBA's Seattle Storm, a one-time SuperSonics sister team, won both the 2004 and 2010 WNBA Finals.

In the playoffs, the Bulls lost only three games in four series, defeating Gary Payton, Shawn Kemp, head coach George Karl and their Seattle SuperSonics in the NBA Finals to win the NBA Championship.
The Bulls won the first three games of the best-of-seven series, but the Sonics rallied back to win the next two at home.
Eventually, the more experienced Bulls proved to be too much as the Bulls captured their fourth title (after a two-year hiatus).
For his performance in the series against Seattle, Michael Jordan was named the Finals MVP.

The "1996 NBA Playoffs" was the postseason tournament of the National Basketball Association's 1995-96 season.
The tournament concluded with the Eastern Conference champion Chicago Bulls defeating the Western Conference champion Seattle SuperSonics 4 games to 2. Michael Jordan was named NBA Finals MVP for a record fourth time.

The "1996–97 Phoenix Suns season" was the 29th season of the Phoenix Suns in the National Basketball Association (NBA).
After an 0–8 start, coach Cotton Fitzsimmons was replaced by former Suns guard Danny Ainge, who led the team to a 40–34 finish.
As the seventh seed in the Western Conference, the Suns faced the Seattle SuperSonics in the first round of the Playoffs, losing 2–3 in a closely contested series.

