0 chicago "The great fire" of Portland, Maine occurred on July 4, 1866—the first Independence Day after the end of the American Civil War. "The great fire" of   occurred on   —the    after the end of the   .
1 chicago Five years before the Great Chicago Fire, this was the greatest fire yet seen in an American city. before the   Fire, this was the greatest fire yet seen in an  city.
2 chicago It started in a boat house on Commercial Street, likely caused by a firecracker or a cigar ash. It started in a boat house on Commercial Street, likely caused by a firecracker or a cigar ash.
3 chicago The fire spread to a lumber yard and on to a sugar house, then spread across the city, eventually burning out on Munjoy Hill in the city's east end. The fire spread to a lumber yard and on to a sugar house, then spread across the city, eventually burning out on   in the city's east end.
4 chicago Only two people died in the fire but 10,000 were made homeless and 1,800 buildings were burned to the ground. Only  people died in the fire but  were made homeless and  buildings were burned to the ground.
5 chicago This included the federal Exchange Building by which was replaced with the custom house. This included the federal Exchange Building by which was replaced with the custom house.
6 chicago Soon after the fire, poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow described his old home town: "Desolation! Soon after the fire, poet    described his old home town: "Desolation!
7 chicago Desolation! Desolation!
8 chicago Desolation! Desolation!
9 chicago It reminds me of Pompeii, the 'sepult city'." It reminds me of , the 'sepult city'."
10 chicago Michigan closed its 1894 season with a trip to Chicago to face Amos Alonzo Stagg's Chicago Maroons. closed its  season with a trip to  to face   's  .
11 chicago Two hours before kickoff a "driving sleet storm" hit the city, and when the players lined up "the grounds were better fitted for skating rink purposes rather than a gridiron." before kickoff a "driving sleet storm" hit the city, and when the players lined up "the grounds were better fitted for skating rink purposes rather than a gridiron."
12 chicago Despite the inclement weather, a large crowd turned out to watch the game. Despite the inclement weather, a large crowd turned out to watch the game.
13 chicago According to a newspaper account, "the grand stand and outfield were packed with yelling collegians, and the boxes and carriage rooms were well filled with society people." According to a newspaper account, "the grand stand and outfield were packed with yelling collegians, and the boxes and carriage rooms were well filled with society people."
14 chicago An account published in the "Detroit Free Press" described the atmosphere surrounding the game:"Notwithstanding the threatening weather, fully 6,000 of Chicago's best and fairest witnessed the hardest fought battle ever seen in Chicago. . . . An account published in the "  " described the atmosphere surrounding the game:"Notwithstanding the threatening weather, fully  of 's best and fairest witnessed the hardest fought battle ever seen in . . . .
15 chicago Michigan was not entirely over her hard-fought game in Detroit last Saturday and her men did not play with the snap and dash she displayed against Cornell. was not entirely over her hard-fought game in    and her men did not play with the snap and dash she displayed against .
16 chicago The east and south sides of the field were lined with tally-hos, landaus, etc. The east and south sides of the field were lined with tally-hos, landaus, etc.
17 chicago Everyone wore the colors of one of the colleges. Every wore the colors of  of the colleges.
18 chicago The yellow and blue of Michigan was as prominently displayed as was the maroon of Chicago. The yellow and blue of  was as prominently displayed as was the maroon of .
19 chicago Everyone was out to yell for his respective team and from the noise it seemed as if pandemonium had been turned loose." Everyone was out to yell for his respective team and from the noise it seemed as if pandemonium had been turned loose."
20 chicago There were 10 days of temperatures above  with 90 percent humidity. There were   of temperatures above  with 90 percent humidity.
21 chicago The temperatures did not drop at night. The temperatures did not drop at night.
22 chicago It caused more deaths than the 1863 New York City draft riots or the 1871 Great Chicago Fire. It caused more deaths than the     draft riots or the  Great  Fire.
23 chicago With Curtis out of action, the Penn team focused on John Garrels. With  out of action, the  team focused on  .
24 chicago Early in the game, Michigan kept the ball in Penn territory, and Garrels narrowly missed a field goal from the 45-yard line. Early in the game,  kept the ball in  territory, and  narrowly missed a field goal from the 45-yard line.
25 chicago Also early in the first half, Penn's right tackle Gaston shoved Garrels to the ground after he had punted. Also early in the  half, 's right tackle  shoved  to the ground after he had punted.
26 chicago The blow nearly knocked Garrels out of the game, and the head linesman called a penalty of 30 yards and ejected Gaston from the game. The blow nearly knocked  out of the game, and the head linesman called a penalty of  yards and ejected  from the game.
27 chicago The "Chicago Daily Tribune" wrote that "Gaston slugged Garrels, knocking the big acting captain 'silly' for a few minutes and dazing him for the entire half." The "  " wrote tht " slugged , knocking the big cting cptin 'silly' for    nd dzing him for the entire hlf."
28 chicago After the game, Michigan's trainer, Keene Fitzpatrick noted that "Garrels' face is badly disfigured for the time being." After the game, 's trainer,   noted that "' face is badly disfigured for the time being."
29 chicago The "Tribune" also reported that Penn's fullback Hollenbach had kneed Michigan halfback Paul Magoffin in the face. The "Tribune" also reported that 's fullback  had kneed  halfback   in the face.
30 chicago Just before the noon hour, severe thunderstorms began forming  west of downtown Chicago. Just before the noon , severe thunderstorms began forming  west of downtown .
31 chicago The first storm started to spawn killer tornadoes in DeKalb and then Kane Counties starting at 12:00 pm. The  storm started to spawn killer tornadoes in  and then Kane Counties starting at 12:00 pm.
32 chicago Roughly 15 minutes later a violent F4 tornado tore through Will and Cook Counties cutting a path  long in the Bellwood and Maywood areas that would kill 20 people as the storm devastated the community of Melrose Park. Roughly    a violent F4 tornado tore through Will and Cook Counties cutting a path  long in the  and  areas that would kill  people as the storm devastated the community of Melrose Park.
33 chicago Ten of the fatalities occurred when the storm made a direct hit on the Melrose Park Catholic Church and Convent where people were getting ready for Palm Sunday services. of the fatalities occurred when the storm made a direct hit on the     and Convent where people were getting ready for Palm  services.
34 chicago Six more people would be killed in the community of Dunning before the storm passed into Lake Michigan. more people would be killed in the community of  before the storm passed into  .
35 chicago Severe thunderstorms began developing in Missouri during the early morning hours. Severe thunderstorms began developing in  during the early morning .
36 chicago The storms moved quickly to the northeast towards Chicago, Illinois. The storms moved quickly to the northeast towards , .
37 chicago The first tornado injured five people  southeast of Springfield, Missouri in the pre-dawn hours in Douglas County. The  tornado injured  people  souast of ,  in    in  .
38 chicago This first twister was a harbinger of things to come as the morning went on and the atmosphere began to destabilize, due to the abundance of sunshine that preceded the cold front in the warm sector, which covered the lower Great Lakes region extending southward well past the Ohio River Valley. This  twister was a harbinger of things to come as the morning went on and the atmosphere began to destabilize, due to the abundance of sunshine that preceded the cold front in the warm sector, which covered the lower Great Lakes region extending southward well  the   .
39 chicago Weather forecasters and the public alike in the Chicago, Dayton, Fort Wayne, Lansing, South Bend, and Toledo areas were unaware that the stage was set that day for a tragic tornado outbreak that would follow on a balmy and seemingly tranquil Palm Sunday afternoon. Weather forecasters and the public alike in the , ,  , , South Bend, and  areas were unaware that the stage was set that  for a tragic tornado outbreak that would follow on a balmy and seemingly tranquil Palm Sun afternoon.
40 chicago The weather maps in use in 1920 showed a rather large and deep cyclone over northern Iowa that was forecast to move across central Lower Michigan by nightfall with a trailing cold front. The weather maps in use in  showed a rather large and deep cyclone over northern  that was forecast to move across central Lower  by nightfall with a trailing cold front.
41 chicago Meteorologists knew rain showers and perhaps a thundershower was a good possibility, but were unaware that the helicity, lifted index, and upper level winds were being guided by a strong jet stream with a probable negative-tilt that would create favorable conditions for the development of tornadoes. Meteorologists knew rain showers and perhaps a thundershower was a good possibility, but were unaware that the helicity, lifted index, and upper level winds were being guided by a strong jet stream with a probable negative-tilt that would create favorable conditions for the development of tornadoes.
42 chicago As the Palm Sunday storms swept quickly out of the Chicago area across Lake Michigan, they moved towards Michigan's Lower Peninsula. As the Palm  storms swept quickly out of the  area across  , they moved towards 's  .
43 chicago Fourteen tornadoes (highest number of any state reported) would cause massive destruction across the region from Berrien and Mason Counties starting at 12:30 pm, moving northeastward to the Kalamazoo, Lansing, Flint and Saginaw areas, ending after 8:00 pm. tornadoes (highest number of any state reported) would cause massive destruction across the region from  and   starting at 12:30 pm, moving northeastward to the , ,  and  areas, ending after 8:00 pm.
44 chicago 1. Harry Frieda, Chicago –  193 feet, 6 inches  2. Priester, Mississippi A&M – 189 feet, 9½ inches  3. Welchel, Georgia Tech – 187 feet, 9 inches  4. Schjoll, Minnesota – 184 feet, 8½ inches 5. Hartley, Nebraska – 178 feet, 3 inches .	
 ,  –   feet,  inches  .	
,  A&M –  feet, ½ inches  .	
,   –  feet,  inches  .	
Schjoll,  –  feet, ½ inches .	
,  –  feet,  inches
45 chicago Although the official paid attendance was recorded as 40,000, newspaper accounts reported that only 20,000 actually attended, as the game was played in a heavy rainstorm on a cold afternoon. Although the official paid attendance was recorded as , newspaper accounts reported that only  actually attended, as the game was played in a heavy rainstorm on a cold afternoon.
46 chicago The rain turned the field into a "sea of mud" with an inch of standing water on top of the mud. The rain turned the field into a "sea of mud" with an inch of standing water on top of the mud.
47 chicago In the "Chicago Daily Tribune", Walter Eckersall (who also served as the game's referee) compared the field to a "bog" and added:"In my twenty-five years of football I have never seen worse conditions. In the "  ",   (who also served as the game's referee) compared the field to a "bog" and added:"In my   of football I have never seen worse conditions.
48 chicago Pools of water stood on parts of the field and in some places the players' feet sunk into the field five or six inches. Pools of water stood on parts of the field and in some places the players' feet sunk into the field  or  inches.
49 chicago It rained throughout the game and a strong wind from the north gave the team defending that goal a decided advantage." It rained throughout the game and a strong wind from the north gave the team defending that goal a decided advantage."
50 chicago The conditions on the field were so poor that the schools' marching bands declined the usual halftime parade across the field and instead played from the cinder path around the field. The conditions on the field were so poor that the schools' marching bands declined the usual halftime parade across the field and instead played from the cinder path around the field.
51 chicago Melvin Purvis, head of the Chicago office of the United States Bureau of Investigation described the damage: "Our investigation convinced me that the tragedy resulted from an explosion somewhere in the region of the baggage compartment in the rear of the plane. , head  the  fice  the      described the damage: "Our investigation convinced me that the tragedy resulted from an explosion somewhere in the region  the baggage compartment in the rear  the plane.
52 chicago Everything in front of the compartment was blown forward, everything behind blown backward, and things at the side outward." Everything in front of the compartment was blown forward, everything behind blown backward, and things at the side outward."
53 chicago He also noted: "The gasoline tanks, instead of being blown out, were crushed in, showing there was no explosion in them." He also noted: "The gasoline tanks, instead of being blown out, were crushed in, showing there was no explosion in them."
54 chicago As many as 5,000 heat related deaths were reported in the United States, and 780 direct and 400 indirect deaths in Canada. As many as  heat related deaths were reported in the  , and  direct and  indirect deaths in .
55 chicago Many people suffered from heat stroke and heat exhaustion, particularly the elderly. Many people suffered from heat stroke and heat exhaustion, particularly the elderly.
56 chicago Unlike today, air conditioning was in the early stages of development and was therefore absent from houses and commercial buildings. Unlike , air conditioning was in the early stages of development and was therefore absent from houses and commercial buildings.
57 chicago Many of the deaths occurred in high population density areas of Chicago, Detroit, St. Louis, Milwaukee, Cleveland, Toronto and other urban areas. Many of the deaths occurred in high population density areas of , ,  , , ,  and other urban areas.
58 chicago Farmers across the continent saw crop failure, causing corn and wheat prices to rise quickly. Farmers across the continent saw crop failure, causing corn and wheat prices to rise quickly.
59 chicago Droughts and heat waves were common in the 1930s. Droughts and heat waves were common in  .
60 chicago The 1930s are remembered as the driest and warmest decade for the US (the Dust Bowl years) and the summer of 1936 was the most widespread and destructive heat wave to occur in the Americas in centuries. are remembered as  driest and warmest  for   (   ) and     was  most widespread and destructive heat wave to occur in   in .
61 chicago The Canadiens went from last to first in the Canadian Division. The Canadiens went from last to  in the  .
62 chicago Morenz was just hitting his stride in January 1937, when tragedy struck. was just hitting his stride in  , when tragedy struck.
63 chicago On one of his hurtling rushes, he was being checked by Earl Seibert of Chicago when his left skate got caught in the dasher of the end boards, and Morenz suffered a badly fractured leg. On  of his hurtling rushes, he was being checked by   of  when his left skate got caught in the dasher of the end boards, and  suffered a badly fractured leg.
64 chicago After suffering a nervous breakdown worrying about if he'd be able to come back, more bad luck occurred. After suffering a nervous breakdown worrying about if he'd be able to come back, more bad luck occurred.
65 chicago On March 8, 1937, X-rays revealed that Howie had blood clots in his healing leg. On    X-rays revealed that  had blood clots in his healing leg.
66 chicago An operation was scheduled for the next day, but when Howie ate a light supper and told the nurse he wanted to rest, in falling asleep his pallor suddenly changed and the nurse knew something was wrong. An operation was scheduled for   , but when  ate a light supper and told  nurse he wanted to rest, in falling asleep his pallor suddenly changed and  nurse knew something was wrong.
67 chicago A blood clot had stopped his heart, and attempts to revive Howie failed. A blood clot had stopped his heart, and attempts to revive  failed.
68 chicago News of Morenz's death shocked the hockey world, and thousands filed past his bier, many in tears, to pay their last respects. News of 's death shocked the hockey world, and thousands filed  his bier, many in tears, to pay their last respects.
69 chicago On November 16, 1936, Hal Winkler made his NHL debut for the New York Rangers and gained a 1-0 shutout over the Montreal Maroons. On      made his  debut for the    and gained a 1-0 shutout over the  .
70 chicago He was the first goaltender to have a shutout in his NHL debut. He was the  goaltender to have a shutout in his  debut.
71 chicago The Montreal Canadiens had hit the bottom in 1935–36, and Babe Siebert was obtained to shore up the defence. had hit the bottom in –, and   was obtained to shore up the defence.
72 chicago But the most loved of all movements was buying Howie Morenz back from the Rangers. But the most loved of all movements was buying   back from the .
73 chicago The Canadiens went from last to first in the Canadian Division. The Canadiens went from last to  in the  .
74 chicago Morenz was just hitting his stride in January 1937, when tragedy struck. was just hitting his stride in  , when tragedy struck.
75 chicago On one of his hurtling rushes, he was being checked by Earl Seibert of Chicago when his left skate got caught in the dasher of the end boards, and Morenz suffered a badly fractured leg. On  of his hurtling rushes, he was being checked by   of  when his left skate got caught in the dasher of the end boards, and  suffered a badly fractured leg.
76 chicago After suffering a nervous breakdown worrying about if he'd be able to come back, more bad luck occurred. After suffering a nervous breakdown worrying about if he'd be able to come back, more bad luck occurred.
77 chicago On March 8, 1937, X-rays revealed that Howie had blood clots in his healing leg. On    X-rays revealed that  had blood clots in his healing leg.
78 chicago An operation was scheduled for the next day, but when Howie ate a light supper and told the nurse he wanted to rest, in falling asleep his pallor suddenly changed and the nurse knew something was wrong. An operation was scheduled for   , but when  ate a light supper and told  nurse he wanted to rest, in falling asleep his pallor suddenly changed and  nurse knew something was wrong.
79 chicago A blood clot had stopped his heart, and attempts to revive Howie failed. A blood clot had stopped his heart, and attempts to revive  failed.
80 chicago News of Morenz's death shocked the hockey world, and thousands filed past his bier, many in tears, to pay their last respects. News of 's death shocked the hockey world, and thousands filed  his bier, many in tears, to pay their last respects.
81 chicago On September 27, a tropical storm formed in the Eastern Pacific Ocean just off the coast of Guatemala. On  , a tropical storm formed in the    just off the coast of .
82 chicago It drifted northwestward, and made landfall on Guatemala on September 28. It drifted northwestward, and made landfall on  on  .
83 chicago It moved northward along the western border of Guatemala, and after crossing southeastern Mexico the storm entered the Gulf of Mexico near Ciudad del Carmen on October 1. It moved northward along the western border  , and after crossing southeastern  the storm entered the    near  del Carmen on  .
84 chicago As it traversed northwestward it strengthened, and became a hurricane on October 2. It turned more to the north and intensified to a major hurricane on October 3 as it neared the Texas coastline. As it traversed northwestward it strengthened, and became a hurricane on  .	
It turned more to the north and intensified to a major hurricane on   as it neared the  coastline.
85 chicago It rapidly attained peak winds of 135 mph (205 km/h). It rapidly attained peak winds of  mph ( km/h).
86 chicago Subsequently, the made landfall near Freeport, Texas on October 4 as a Category 4 hurricane. Subsequently, the made landfall near ,  on   as a Category  hurricane.
87 chicago The lowest recorded pressure was 978 mbar, and estimates place the minimum central pressure near 972 mbar. The lowest recorded pressure was  mbar, and estimates place the minimum central pressure near  mbar.
88 chicago The hurricane rapidly weakened to a tropical storm as it turned northeastward over land, though it maintained tropical storm status until October 6 while over Missouri. The hurricane rapidly weakened to a tropical storm as it turned northeastward over land, though it maintained tropical storm status until   while over .
89 chicago As a tropical depression it accelerated northeastward, and later that day it dissipated near Chicago, Illinois. As a tropical depression it accelerated northeastward, and later that  it dissipated near , .
90 chicago The storm moved ashore near Freeport during the night of October 3, and after significantly weakening, it passed directly over Houston; the next storm to do so would be Hurricane Alicia in 1983. The storm moved ashore near  during the night of  , and after significantly weakening, it passed directly over ; the next storm to do so would be Hurricane  in 198.
91 chicago Upon moving inland, the hurricane quickly deteriorated, and is estimated to have downgraded into a tropical storm within six hours of making landfall. Upon moving inland, the hurricane quickly deteriorated, and is estimated to have downgraded into a tropical storm within   of making landfall.
92 chicago It turned northeastward as it continued through the central United States, weakening to a tropical depression by October 6. It turned northeastward as it continued through the central  , weakening to a tropical depression by  .
93 chicago It persisted until October 8, when it is believed to have dissipated near Chicago, Illinois. It persisted until  , when it is believed to have dissipated near , .
94 chicago At 5:30 P.M., another strong, later F4-estimated, tornado touched down near Palos Hills. At 5:30 P.M., another strong, later F4-estimated, tornado touched down near  .
95 chicago Near the beginning of its path, the tornado downed multiple trees and two high transmission electrical towers. Near the beginning of its path, the tornado downed multiple trees and  high transmission electrical towers.
96 chicago It strengthened and in the space of six minutes, tore a 16.2-mile (65 mph ground speed) swath of destruction through Oak Lawn, Hometown, Evergreen Park, and devastated the south side of Chicago before moving offshore to Lake Michigan as people were stuck in traffic during Friday rush hour. It strengthened and in the space of  , tore a 16.2-mile ( mph ground speed) swath of destruction through  , Hometown,  , and devastated the south side of  before moving offshore to   as people were stuck in traffic during  rush .
97 chicago Many of the deaths occurred at traffic lights, where vehicles were thrown by the tornado. Many of the deaths occurred at traffic lights, where vehicles were thrown by the tornado.
98 chicago For that reason, this tornado ended up being the deadliest in the outbreak. For that reason, this tornado ended up being the deadliest in the outbreak.
99 chicago Thirty-three people were killed and 1000 were injured, including 16 deaths alone at the intersection of Southwest Highway and W. 95th St. (US-12/20) in Oak Lawn. people were killed and  were injured, including  deaths alone at the intersection of   and W.  St. (US-12/) in  .
100 chicago Several children were killed when a roller skating rink was struck. Several children were killed when a roller skating rink was struck.
101 chicago A high school, grocery store, tavern, market, motel, drive-in theater, restaurant, numerous apartments, and two gas stations were destroyed as well. A high school, grocery store, tavern, market, motel, drive-in theater, restaurant, numerous apartments, and  gas stations were destroyed as well.
102 chicago A mobile home court was also destroyed and a large brick factory structure was damaged as well. A mobile home court was also destroyed and a large brick factory structure was damaged as well.
103 chicago It destroyed 152 homes and damaged 900, causing $50 million in damage. It destroyed  homes and damaged , causing $50 million in damage.
104 chicago The next day thunderstorms produced sleet, freezing rain, and snow in St. Louis. thunderstorms produced sleet, freezing rain, and snow in  .
105 chicago Three days later, on January 27, a blizzard crippled Chicago, dumping  of snow on the city. , on  , a blizzard crippled , dumping  of snow on the city.
106 chicago The earthquake was felt in 23 states and affected a zone of . The earthquake was felt in  states and affected a zone of .
107 chicago The shaking extended east to Pennsylvania and West Virginia, south to Mississippi and Alabama, north to Toronto, Canada, and west to Oklahoma. The shaking extended east to  and  , south to  and , north to , , and west to .
108 chicago Isolated reports were received from Boston, Mobile, Alabama, Pensacola, Florida, southern Ontario, Arkansas, Minnesota, Tennessee, Georgia, Kansas, Ohio, Mississippi, Kentucky, North Carolina, South Carolina, Missouri, West Virginia, Alabama, Nebraska, Iowa, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Pennsylvania, Michigan, and Wisconsin, presumably because of shaking. Isolated reports were received from , Mobile, , , , southern , , , , , , , , ,  ,  , ,  , , , , ,  , , , and , presumably because of shaking.
109 chicago The worst affected areas were in the general area of Evansville, Indiana, St. Louis, and Chicago, but there was no major damage. The worst affected areas were in the general area of , ,  , and , but there was no major damage.
110 chicago There were no deaths; the worst injury was a child knocked unconscious by falling debris outside his home. There were no deaths; the worst injury was a child knocked unconscious by falling debris outside his home.
111 chicago Due to the foggy conditions and limited visibility at the airport, it took controllers nearly two minutes to determine that something had happened to North Central Flight 575. Due to the foggy conditions and limited visibility at the airport, it took controllers    to determine that something had happened to North Central Flight .
112 chicago Once they did, they alerted the Chicago Fire Department, which arrived at the scene about a minute later, three minutes after the crash. they did, they lerted the   , which rrived t the scene    lter,  s fter the crsh.
113 chicago Employing 11 crash and fire vehicles and two ambulances, the fire department extinguished the fire in about 16 minutes at around 6:19 p.m. CDT. Employing  crash and fire vehicles and  ambulances, the fire department extinguished the fire in    at around 6:19 p.m. CDT.
114 chicago Widespread significantly severe damaging wind occurred in many areas across eastern Iowa and the northwestern third of Illinois. Widespread significantly severe damaging wind occurred in many areas across eastern  and the northwestern  of .
115 chicago Many corn fields were flattened and trees were downed, and light structural damage occurred. Many corn fields were flattened and trees were downed, and light structural damage occurred.
116 chicago Power was cut to thousands across the western and northwestern suburbs of Chicago. was cut to thousands across the western and northwestern suburbs of .
117 chicago Around 5:05 pm, a rope-like tornado with multiple funnels was sighted on a farm southwest of Toulon, Illinois, following a left-curving path, before lifting  south of Toulon, leaving crop damage and was rated F0 with a path length of  and width of . Around 5:05 pm, a rope-like tornado with multiple funnels was sighted on a farm southwest of , , following a left-curving path, before lifting  south of , leaving crop damage and was rated F0 with a path length of  and width of .
118 chicago A wind gust of  was measured near Peoria and a funnel cloud was spotted at Groveland. A wind gust of  was measured near  and a funnel cloud was spotted at .
119 chicago Lightning also damaged several houses and buildings. Lightning also damaged several houses and buildings.
120 chicago One woman was killed when venturing outside to close her car windows and a six-story International Harvester warehouse was ignited into a large fire. woman was killed when venturing outside to close her car windows and a six-story   warehouse was ignited into a large fire.
121 chicago The first tornado of a complex combination of tornado family and extreme downbursts touched down at 4:30 p.m. about  west of the small city of Canton (or  southwest of Blyton) and immediately grew to very large size in agrarian central Fulton County. The  tornado of a complex combination of tornado family and extreme downbursts touched down at 4:30 p.m. about  west of the small city of  (or  southwest of ) and immediately grew to very large size in agrarian central  .
122 chicago It continued meandering rural areas with an average movement of easterly roughly near Illinois Route 9 for  before ending about  southeast of Fiatt. It continued meandering rural areas with an average movement of easterly roughly near  Route  for  before ending about  southeast of .
123 chicago A grain elevator was leveled and blown about  away. A grain elevator was leveled and blown about  away.
124 chicago Total damages were around $250,000. Total damages were around $250,000.
125 chicago A University of Chicago team headed by Ted Fujita surveyed the damage path as  wide at times and suction spot crop damage indicated a multiple vortex tornado. A    team headed by   surveyed the damage path as  wide at times and suction spot crop damage indicated a multiple vortex tornado.
126 chicago The nursing home was equipped with a manual and automatic fire alarm system that is connected directly to the fire alarm office of the Chicago Fire Department. The nursing home was equipped with a manual and automatic fire alarm system that is connected directly to the fire alarm office of the   .
127 chicago The alarm system was designed to give out a code or box number of the alarm station when activated. The alarm system was designed to give out a code or box number of the alarm station when activated.
128 chicago The manual fire alarm system consisted of two pull fire alarm boxes located on each floor and one fire alarm box located at the entrance of the building. The manual fire alarm system consisted of  pull fire alarm boxes located on each floor and  fire alarm box located at the entrance of the building.
129 chicago The automatic fire alarms are activated by heat sensors which are located on the third floor, both stairways and in the storage closet. The automatic fire alarms are activated by heat sensors which are located on the  floor, both stairways and in the storage closet.
130 chicago The automatic fire alarm system also consisted of smoke detectors. The automatic fire alarm system also consisted of smoke detectors.
131 chicago On the third floor, three fire extinguishers and two public address loud speakers were installed. On the  floor,  fire extinguishers and  public address loud speakers were installed.
132 chicago The "1976 Wincrest Nursing Home fire" took place on Friday, January 30, 1976 in Chicago, USA. The " Wincrest Nursing Home fire" took place on     in  .
133 chicago The fire occurred when an arsonist set a wardrobe closet on fire at the Wincrest Nursing Home building, located at 6326 N. Winthrop Avenue. The fire occurred when an arsonist set a wardrobe closet on fire at the    building, located at  N. Winthrop Avenue.
134 chicago The alarm sounded at 11:30 a.m. and the fire was put out at 1:30 p.m. The alarm sounded at 11:30 a.m. and the fire was put out at 1:30 p.m.
135 chicago Although the building itself sustained minor smoke, fire and water damage, 23 people died from smoke inhalation. Although the building itself sustained minor smoke, fire and water damage,  people died from smoke inhalation.
136 chicago A 21 year old housekeeper was arrested by authorities and was charged with multiple counts of arson. A    housekeeper was arrested by authorities and was charged with multiple counts of arson.
137 chicago The fire was put out at 1:28 p.m. CDT. The fire was put out at 1:28 p.m. CDT.
138 chicago The room where the fire broke out was completely gutted and the adjacent corridor sustained only moderate smoke and heat damage. The room where the fire broke out was completely gutted and the adjacent corridor sustained only moderate smoke and heat damage.
139 chicago Three other rooms also suffered heat and smoke damage. other rooms also suffered heat and smoke damage.
140 chicago No smoke damage was evident on the second or first floors and water damage was minor. No smoke damage was evident on the  or  floors and water damage was minor.
141 chicago However despite the minor damage to the building, 23 fatalities were reported due to smoke inhalation. However despite the minor damage to the building,  fatalities were reported due to smoke inhalation.
142 chicago An investigation made by the Chicago Police Department and fire department. An investigation made by the    and fire department.
143 chicago The survivors claimed that the fire was started in a plywood wardrobe closet in Room 306 which was unoccupied at the time. The survivors claimed that the fire was started in a plywood wardrobe closet in   which was unoccupied at the time.
144 chicago Although the actual cause of the fire was unknown, the Police Bureau of Investigation arrested a housekeeper who was charged with multiple counts of arson. Although the actual cause  the fire was unknown, the     arrested a housekeeper who was charged with multiple counts  arson.
145 chicago It is unclear, however, how the authorities determined that the fire was an act of arson, and the arsonist's motives for starting the fire were never noted. It is unclear, however, how the authorities determined that the fire was an act of arson, and the arsonist's motives for starting the fire were never noted.
146 chicago At the time of the fire, the building was occupied by 83 residents, three nurses, 2 aides and eleven office, kitchen and maintenance staff. At the time of the fire, the building was occupied by  residents,  nurses,  aides and  office, kitchen and maintenance staff.
147 chicago 28 of the residents were in the chapel room on the third floor of the building. of the residents were in the chapel room on the  floor of the building.
148 chicago Fire was reported in room 306 by a nurse’s aide who pulled the fire alarm box. Fire was reported in room  by a nurse’s aide who pulled the fire alarm box.
149 chicago The alarm was received by the Chicago Fire Department at 11:43 A.M (CDT). The alarm was received by the    at 11:43 A.M (CDT).
150 chicago Attempts to put out the fire by staff proved to no avail. Attempts to put out the fire by staff proved to no avail.
151 chicago The first fire engine arrived at the scene of the fire 3 minutes and 40 seconds later as nursing home staff evacuated the burning building. The  fire engine arrived at the scene of the fire   and    as nursing home staff evacuated the burning building.
152 chicago More fire engines arrived seconds later as smoke was seen rising from the top of the building. More fire engines arrived   as smoke was seen rising from the top of the building.
153 chicago At 11:46 A.M., firefighters fighting the fire, discovered the third floor heavily laden with smoke and trapped elderly patients in wheelchairs. At 11:46 A.M., firefighters fighting the fire, discovered the  floor heavily laden with smoke and trapped elderly patients in wheelchairs.
154 chicago The victims were immediately removed from the burning building and were transported to nearby hospitals. The victims were immediately removed from the burning building and were transported to nearby hospitals.
155 chicago The "1977 Chicago Loop derailment" occurred on February 4, 1977, when a Chicago Transit Authority elevated train rear-ended another on the northeast corner of the Loop at Wabash Avenue and Lake Street during the evening rush hour. The "  Loop derailment" occurred on    when a    elevated train rear-ended another on the northeast corner of the Loop at   and   during the evening rush .
156 chicago The collision forced the first four cars of the rear train off the elevated tracks, killing eleven people and injuring over 180 as the cars fell onto the street below. The collision forced the   cars of the rear train off the elevated tracks, killing  people and injuring over  as the cars fell onto the street below.
157 chicago It remains the single worst accident in the agency's history. It remains the single worst accident in the agency's history.
158 chicago According to the Chicago Tribune, NWS Chicago had "the worst record in the nation" for issuing warnings for severe storms, only issuing warnings 24% of the time when a warning was justifiable. According to the  ,   had "the worst record in the nation" for issuing warnings for severe storms, only issuing warnings 24% of the time when a warning was justifiable.
159 chicago Even today, many meteorologists refer to the "Plainfield Syndrome" as the idea that it's better to issue too many warnings and be wrong than to miss one critical warning, as was the case for the Plainfield Tornado. Even , many meteorologists refer to the " Syndrome" as the idea that it's better to issue too many warnings and be wrong than to miss  critical warning, as was the case for the  Tornado.
160 chicago At some point after the 1990 tornado, the National Weather Service reduced the Chicago office's workload by creating an office in Romeoville, Illinois and allowing offices in the Quad Cities, St. Louis, Missouri, Indianapolis, Indiana and Paducah, Kentucky to issue forecasts for their respective areas. At some point after the  tornado, the    reduced the  office's workload by creating an office in ,  and allowing offices in the Quad Cities,  , , ,  and ,  to issue forecasts for their respective areas.
161 chicago The "1990 Plainfield tornado" was a devastating tornado that occurred on the afternoon of Tuesday, August 28, 1990. The "  tornado" was a devastating tornado that occurred on the afternoon of    .
162 chicago The violent tornado killed 29 people and injured 353. The violent tornado killed  people and injured .
163 chicago It is the only F5 tornado ever recorded in August and the only F5 tornado to ever strike the Chicago area. It is the only F5 tornado ever recorded in  and the only F5 tornado to ever strike the  area.
164 chicago There are few known videos or photographs of the tornado. There are few known videos or photographs of the tornado.
165 chicago Conditions were ripe for severe thunderstorm development, and with both low level and high level steering winds from the west-northwest, the National Severe Storms Forecast Center issued a Severe Thunderstorm Watch for northern Illinois valid 1:30 p.m. through 8:00 p.m. CDT that night. Conditions were ripe for severe thunderstorm development, and with both low level and high level steering winds from the west-northwest, the      issued a  Thunderstorm Watch for northern  valid 1:30 p.m. through 8:00 p.m. CDT that night.
166 chicago The NSSFC predicted a derecho-type event for later that night as rapidly developing thunderstorms along a cold front in Wisconsin would be carried by the steering flow into the Chicago area. The  predicted a derecho-type event for later that night as rapidly developing thunderstorms along a cold front in  would be carried by the steering flow into the  area.
167 chicago One of these storms developed supercellular characteristics south of Rockford, steering 30 to 40 degrees to the right of prevailing steering winds. of these storms developed supercellular characteristics south of , steering  to  degrees to the right of prevailing steering winds.
168 chicago By now, mid-level steering winds had begun to veer, causing a wind profile slightly more favorable for tornadic development. By , mid-level steering winds had begun to veer, causing a wind profile slightly more favorable for tornadic development.
169 chicago This helped develop a high precipitation supercell. This helped develop a high precipitation supercell.
170 chicago In the months following the tornado, the National Weather Service was heavily criticized for providing no warning of the approaching tornado. In   following  tornado,   Wear  was heavily criticized for providing no warning of  approaching tornado.
171 chicago The NOAA Disaster Survey Report was highly critical of the forecast process within the Chicago office as well as coordination with local spotter networks and the preparedness of these groups. The  Disaster Survey Report was highly critical of the forecast process within the  office as well as coordination with local spotter networks and the preparedness of these groups.
172 chicago Prior to 1990, the National Weather Service in Chicago was responsible for providing forecasts for the entire state of Illinois. Prior to , the    in  was responsible for providing forecasts for the entire state of .
173 chicago As the Chicago office was overwhelmed with its workload, no warnings were issued by the office until 2:32 p.m. &mdash; nearly an hour after the first tornado was sighted southeast of Rockford. As the  office was overwhelmed with its workload, no warnings were issued by the office until 2:32 p.m. &mdash;    after the  tornado was sighted southeast of .
174 chicago A second severe thunderstorm warning was issued almost an hour later at 3:23 p.m., but this provided no indication that a tornado was on the ground and did not mention the area where the tornado had tracked. severe thunderstorm warning was issued almost     3:23 p.m., but this provided no indicion th a tornado was on the ground d did not mention the area where the tornado had tracked.
175 chicago No tornado warning was issued until after the tornado lifted. No tornado warning was issued until after the tornado lifted.
176 chicago In eastern Minnesota, the Halloween Blizzard shattered many of the previous October snowfall records. In eastern ,    shattered many of    snowfall records.
177 chicago The 8.2 inches that fell in the Twin Cities on October 31 was more snow than had ever been recorded in any October in its recorded history. The  inches that fell in the Twin Cities on   was more snow than had ever been recorded in any  in its recorded history.
178 chicago November 1 saw similar daily records fall, but with a more wide reaching area from most of central Minnesota eastward to La Crosse and Eau Claire, Wisconsin. saw similar daily records , but with a more wide reaching area from most of central  eastward to   and  , .
179 chicago Following the storm Arctic air poured southward from Canada to produce many record low temperatures in these same areas. Following the storm  air poured southward from  to produce many record low temperatures in these same areas.
180 chicago Bismarck, North Dakota, sank to −10 °F on October 31, breaking their previous record low of  by 16 degrees. ,  , sank to − F on  , breaking their previous record low of  by  degrees.
181 chicago Record snow and cold was recorded as far south as Nebraska and Colorado. Record snow and cold was recorded as far south as  and .
182 chicago The Arctic air also spread over Chicago, recording a low of 11 on November 4. The  air also spread over , recording a low of  on  .
183 chicago The "1995 Chicago heat wave" was a heat wave which led to approximately 750 heat-related deaths in Chicago over a period of five days. The "  heat wave" was a heat wave which led to approximately  heat-related deaths in  over a period of  .
184 chicago Eric Klinenberg, author of the 2002 book "Heat Wave: A Social Autopsy of Disaster in Chicago", has noted that in the United States, the loss of human life in hot spells in summer exceeds that caused by all other weather events combined, including lightning, rain, floods, hurricanes, and tornadoes. , author of the  book "Heat Wave: A Social Autopsy of Disaster in ", has noted that in the  , the loss of human life in hot spells in  exceeds that caused by all other weather events combined, including lightning, rain, floods, hurricanes, and tornadoes.
185 chicago The heat wave heavily impacted the wider Midwestern region, with additional deaths in both St. Louis, Missouri and Milwaukee, Wisconsin, as well. The heat wave heavily impacted the wider Midwestern region, with additional deaths in both  ,  and , , as well.
186 chicago The temperatures soared to record highs in July with the hottest weather occurring from July 12 to July 16. The temperatures soared to record highs in  with the hottest weather occurring from   to  .
187 chicago The high of  on July 13 was the second warmest July temperature (warmest being  set on July 23, 1934) since records began at Chicago Midway International Airport in 1928. The high of  on   was the  warmest  temperature (warmest being  set on   ) since records began at     in .
188 chicago Nighttime low temperatures were unusually high; in the upper 70s and lower 80s °F (about 26 °C)&mdash;as well. Nighttime low temperatures were unusually high; in the upper 70s and lower  F (about  C)&mdash;as well.
189 chicago Record humidity levels also accompanied the hot weather. Record humidity levels also accompanied the hot weather.
190 chicago The heat index reached  at O'Hare airport, and  at Midway Airport. The heat index reached  at  airport, and  at  .
191 chicago Impacts in the Chicago urban center were exacerbated by an urban heat island that raised nocturnal temperatures by more than . Impacts in the  urban center were exacerbated by an urban heat island that raised nocturnal temperatures by more than .
192 chicago Urban heat islands are caused by the concentration of buildings and pavement in urban areas, which tend to absorb more heat in the day and radiate less heat at night into their immediate surroundings than comparable rural sites. Urban heat islands are caused by  concentration of buildings and pavement in urban areas, which tend to absorb more heat in   and radiate less heat at night into ir immediate surroundings than comparable rural sites.
193 chicago Therefore, built-up areas get hotter and stay hotter. Therefore, built-up areas get hotter and stay hotter.
194 chicago Other aggravating factors were inadequate warnings, power failures, inadequate ambulance service and hospital facilities, and lack of preparation. Other aggravating factors were inadequate warnings, power failures, inadequate ambulance service and hospital facilities, and lack of preparation.
195 chicago City officials did not release a heat emergency warning until the last day of the heat wave. City officials did not release a heat emergency warning until    of  heat wave.
196 chicago Thus, such emergency measures as Chicago's five cooling centers were not fully utilized. Thus, such emergency measures as 's  cooling centers were not fully utilized.
197 chicago The medical system of Chicago was severely taxed as thousands were taken to local hospitals with heat-related problems. The medical system of  was severely taxed as thousands were taken to local hospitals with heat-related problems.
198 chicago Another powerful factor in the heat wave was that a temperature inversion grew over the city, and air stagnated in this situation. Another powerful factor in the heat wave was that a temperature inversion grew over the city, and air stagnated in this situation.
199 chicago Pollutants and humidity were confined to ground level, and the air was becalmed and devoid of wind. Pollutants and humidity were confined to ground level, and the air was becalmed and devoid of wind.
200 chicago Without wind to stir the air, temperatures grew even hotter than could be expected with just an urban heat island, and without wind there was truly no relief. Without wind to stir the air, temperatures grew even hotter than could be expected with just an urban heat island, and without wind there was truly no relief.
201 chicago Without any way to relieve the heat, even the inside of homes became ovens, with indoor temperature exceeding  at night. Without any way to relieve the heat, even the inside of homes became ovens, with indoor temperature exceeding  at night.
202 chicago This was especially noticeable in areas which experienced frequent power outages. This was especially noticeable in areas which experienced frequent power outages.
203 chicago At Northwestern University just north of Chicago, summer school students lived in dormitories without air conditioning. At   just north of ,  school students lived in dormitories without air conditioning.
204 chicago In order to ease the effects of the heat, some of the students slept at night with water-soaked towels as blankets. In order to ease the effects of the heat, some of the students slept at night with water-soaked towels as blankets.
205 chicago About fifty people were on the top wooden balcony at the time of the collapse. About  people were on the top wooden balcony at the time of the collapse.
206 chicago According to one witness, the sound of splintering wood was heard immediately before the collapse, which occurred shortly after midnight local time. According to  witness, the sound of splintering wood was heard immediately before the collapse, which occurred shortly after midnight local time.
207 chicago The collapse started on the third floor, pulling down other balconies below. The collapse started on the  floor, pulling down other balconies below.
208 chicago The first, second, and third floor balconies all collapsed into the basement below, carrying a total of approximately one hundred people among them. The , ,   floor balconies all collapsed into the basement below, carrying a total of approximately   people among them.
209 chicago Several people were also trapped in a basement stairwell. Several people were also trapped in a basement stairwell.
210 chicago Survivors helped to pull victims out from under the debris of the balconies, and rescue workers had to use chainsaws to free others. Survivors helped to pull victims out from under the debris of the balconies, and rescue workers had to use chainsaws to free others.
211 chicago One of the survivors was a nurse, and had started a rescue effort before the emergency services arrived. of the survivors was a nurse, and had started a rescue effort before the emergency services arrived.
212 chicago The Chicago Fire Department supplied the main rescue effort. The    supplied the main rescue effort.
213 chicago Eleven people were killed in the collapse, with two more subsequently dying while hospitalized; fifty-seven people were injured. people were killed in the collapse, with  more subsequently dying while hospitalized;  people were injured.
214 chicago In 2005, the city of Chicago filed a negligence lawsuit against two of the survivors, William Fenton-Hathaway and John Koranda. In , the city of  filed a negligence lawsuit against  of the survivors,   and  .
215 chicago The city alleged that the  balcony collapse occurred after defendants Fenton-Hathaway and Koranda "intentionally and negligently" began jumping up and down on the porch. The city alleged that the  balcony collapse occurred after defendants Fenton-Hathaway and  "intentionally and negligently" began jumping up and down on the porch.
216 chicago Koranda's brother, Robert Koranda, was killed in the collapse. 's brother,  , was killed in the collapse.
217 chicago The charges against Fenton-Hathaway and Koranda were later dropped. The charges against Fenton-Hathaway and  were later dropped.
218 chicago On June 29, 2003, the deadliest porch collapse in United States history occurred in Chicago. On    the deadliest porch collapse in   history occurred in .
219 chicago An overloaded balcony collapsed during a party in an apartment building, killing thirteen people and seriously injuring fifty-seven others. An overloaded balcony collapsed during a party in an apartment building, killing  people and seriously injuring  others.
220 chicago The ensuing investigation was highly critical of the way the balcony was built, finding a large number of errors in its construction which ultimately resulted in the collapse. The ensuing investigation was highly critical of the way the balcony was built, finding a large number of errors in its construction which ultimately resulted in the collapse.
221 chicago However, the building's owner continues to blame overcrowding on the balcony for its complete structural failure, although he has taken steps to strengthen the balconies at his properties to prevent a recurrence of the disaster. However, the building's owner continues to blame overcrowding on the balcony for its complete structural failure, although he has taken steps to strengthen the balconies at his properties to prevent a recurrence of the disaster.
222 chicago The accident resulted in sweeping inspections of  similar structures across Chicago, with 1,260 cases being actioned by the city authorities. The accident resulted in sweeping inspections of  similar structures across , with  cases being actioned by the city authorities.
223 chicago As the evacuating crowd pushed open the doors, several people already climbing the stairs were knocked down and subsequently pinned by the ensuing crush. As the evacuating crowd pushed open the doors, several people already climbing the stairs were knocked down and subsequently pinned by the ensuing crush.
224 chicago Security attempted to pull them to safety, but the pile rapidly reached six feet in height as a result of more than 1,500 simultaneously attempting to escape the chaos inside. Security attempted to pull them to safety, but the pile rapidly reached  feet in height as a result of more than  simultaneously attempting to escape the chaos inside.
225 chicago Ira Navarro, a former E2 guard who had worked at trying to free trapped patrons, recalled to the "Chicago Sun-Times" in January 2007 that he had heard other clubbers atop the stairs laughing at the fracas, unaware of the fatalities stemming from the ground-floor pileup. , a former E2 guard who had worked at trying to free trapped patrons, recalled to the "Chicago Sun-Times" in   that he had heard other clubbers atop the stairs laughing at the fracas, unaware of the fatalities stemming from the ground-floor pileup.
226 chicago On September 11 at Chicagoland Speedway, Dan Wheldon won his sixth race, breaking the all-time record for most wins in an IRL season. On   at  ,   won his  race, breaking the all-time record for most wins in an IRL season.
227 chicago Ryan Briscoe was involved in a fiery crash with Alex Barron on lap 20. was involved in a fiery crash with   on lap .
228 chicago Briscoe was taken by helicopter to a Chicago-area hospital with head and back pain, but was alert. was taken by helicopter to a  hospital with head and back pain, but was alert.
229 chicago He suffered a concussion, two broken collarbones, a bruised lung and contusions to his arms and legs. He suffered a concussion,  broken collarbones, a bruised lung and contusions to his arms and legs.
230 chicago The accident resulted in a 16-minute red flag. The accident resulted in a  red flag.
231 chicago Just north of Toronto at Buttonville Airport, the temperature reached 37.8 °C (100.4 °F) on August 2, 2006. Just north of  at   the temperature reached  C ( F) on   006.
232 chicago On the same day, the nighttime minimum temperature in Toronto was the highest ever recorded, only dropping to 27.2 °C (81 °F). On   ,  nighttime minimum temperature in  was  highest ever recorded, only dropping to  C ( F).
233 chicago In Ottawa, the temperature reached 36.3 °C (97.5 °F), but with close to 80% humidity factored in, it reached an all-time humidex record of 48 °C (118 °F).http://www.ottawasun.com/News/OttawaAndRegion/2006/08/02/1714593-sun.html In , the temperature reached  C ( F), but with close to 80% humidity factored in, it reached an all-time humidex record of  C ( F).
234 chicago "^" [http://www.cbc.ca/canada/toronto/story/2006/08/01/electricity-power.html "^" [
235 chicago Ontario records power consumption record] "^" [http://www.cbc.ca/canada/toronto/story/2006/08/02/quebec-storm.html records power consumption record] "^" [
236 chicago Quebec storm]  "^" Klinenberg, Eric. Quebec storm]  "^" , .
237 chicago (2002). ().
238 chicago Heat Wave: A Social Autopsy of Disaster in Chicago. Heat Wave: A Social Autopsy of Disaster in .
239 chicago Chicago, IL: Chicago University Press. , IL:   .
240 chicago "See also" a related discussion of deaths due to cold. "See also" a related discussion of deaths due to cold.
241 chicago "^" [http://www.magazine.noaa.gov/stories/mag208.htm HEAT – THE NUMBER ONE NON-SEVERE WEATHER RELATED KILLER IN THE UNITED STATES], NOAA Magazine, August 2, 2006. "^" [http://www.magazine.noaa.gov/stories/mag08.htm HEAT – THE NUMBER  NON-SEVERE WEATHER RELATED KILLER IN THE  ]     006.
242 chicago Record power consumption was recorded in Ontario when close to 27,000 MW were used by consumers, beating out a record from the previous summer. Record power consumption was recorded in  when close to  MW were used by consumers, beating out a record from   .
243 chicago In the early August heat, Chicago saw at least 23 deaths, but the City was widely praised for avoiding the disaster that occurred in the 1995 Chicago heat wave which saw over 700 deaths. In    heat,  saw at least  deaths, but  City was widely praised for avoiding  disaster that occurred in    heat wave which saw over  deaths.
244 chicago The City took steps to ensure vulnerable residents were protected, and individuals took responsibility for their neighbors. The City took steps to ensure vulnerable residents were protected, and individuals took responsibility for their neighbors.
245 chicago The city of Rockford, Illinois was deluged in the weeks preceding the major flooding during the third week of August. The city  ,  was deluged in   preceding  major flooding during     .
246 chicago On August 7, 2007, Rockford was hit by five to seven inches (127–178 mm) of rain. On   200  was hit by  to  inches (12–18 mm) of rain.
247 chicago Many streets, including main thoroughfares, were flooded. Many streets, including main thoroughfares, were flooded.
248 chicago There was also fear that the Alpine Dam might break. There was also fear that the Alpine Dam might break.
249 chicago The following day, Governor Rod Blagojevich declared both Rockford and Winnebago County a state disaster area. , Governor   declared both  and   a state disaster area.
250 chicago With this declaration, he dispatched both the Illinois Emergency Management Agency and the Illinois Department of Natural Resources to assist the city. With this declaration, he dispatched both the     and the      to assist the city.
251 chicago Debris removal, law enforcement, damage assessment, and other physical assistance were offered by the governor. Debris removal, law enforcement, damage assessment, and other physical assistance were offered by the governor.
252 chicago About two weeks later on August 23, violent storms rolled through the Chicago area. on  , violent storms rolled through the  area.
253 chicago A Tornado Warning was issued for all of Chicago during the first storm and a tornado touched down in Winfield. A Tornado Warning was issued for all of  during the  storm and a tornado touched down in .
254 chicago The second storm was more rain and lightning. The  storm was more rain and lightning.
255 chicago Governor Rod Blagojevich declared McHenry, Lake, Cook (including Chicago), DuPage, and Kane counties to be disaster areas after the storm. Governor   declared , ,  (including ), DuPage, and  counties to be disaster areas after the storm.
256 chicago Though not affected by flooding as it was on August 7, the city of Rockford received 1.23 inches (31 mm) of rain, setting an all time record for Rockford's wettest month in recorded climate data history, with a total of 13.82 inches (351 mm) of rain. Though not affected by flooding as it was on  , the city of  received  inches ( mm) of rain, setting an all time record for 's wettest  in recorded climate data history, with a total of  inches ( mm) of rain.
257 chicago The storm shut down airports (including O'Hare International Airport and Midway International Airport), uprooted trees and left over 600,000 residents in northern Illinois without power, some for several days. The storm shut down airports (including    and Midway  ), uprooted trees and left over  residents in northern  without power, some for  .
258 chicago [http://wmaq.weatherplus.com/weathernews/13960081/detail.html [http://wmaq.weatherplus.com/weathernews/13960081/detail.html
259 chicago NBC 5 News]  It also caused flooding on streets and major expressways shuch as the Bishop Ford Freeway. News]  It also caused flooding on streets and major expressways shuch as the Bishop Ford Freeway.
260 chicago Wind gusts registered as high as 80 miles per hour (130 km/h) in the area, with the highest being reported in Manhattan. Wind gusts registered as high as  miles per  ( km/h) in the area, with the highest being reported in .
261 chicago A small tornado was also reported in Bolingbrook in a DuPage County Forest Preserve. A small tornado was also reported in  in a    .
262 chicago Rainfall totals in Boone and LaSalle Counties topped 1987 records. Rainfall totals in  and LaSalle Counties topped  records.
263 chicago Flooding across northern Illinois was widespread in the aftermath of the storms. Flooding across northern  was widespread in the aftermath of the storms.
264 chicago Along the Rock River in Byron, the river reached moderate flood stage on August 24; moderate stage is above 14 feet (4 m). Along the   in , the river reached moderate flood stage on  ; moderate stage is above  feet ( m).
265 chicago Officials in Ogle County recommended that people in low-lying areas along the Rock River, and along Killbuck Creek near Lindenwood, evacuate to higher ground. Officials in   recommended that people in low-lying areas along the  , and along   near , evacuate to higher ground.
266 chicago Downstream, in Lee County at Dixon, the river had not reached flood stage as off August 25, though it continued to rise. Downstream, in   at , the river had not reached flood stage as off  , though it continued to rise.
267 chicago Other rivers and streams in the Rock River valley experienced moderate to major flooding as well. Other rivers and streams in the   valley experienced moderate to major flooding as well.
268 chicago The Kishwaukee River at Perryville crested at 17.57 feet (5.36 m), more than five feet above flood stage. The   at  crested at  feet ( m), more than  feet above flood stage.
269 chicago The same river also rose above flood stage in Belvidere. The same river also rose above flood stage in .
270 chicago After 4.85 inches (123 mm) of rain fell on August 23 and 24 in DeKalb County, at DeKalb, the South Branch Kishwaukee River rose to its highest level since 1983 and its second highest level in recorded history. After  inches ( mm) of rain fell on   and  in  , at , the     rose to its highest level since  and its  highest level in recorded history.
271 chicago Numerous roads and bridges were closed, and the cities of DeKalb and Sycamore declared local emergencies, though DeKalb County was not included in Blagojevich's initial disaster declaration. Numerous roads and bridges were closed, and the cities of  and  declared local emergencies, though   was not included in 's initial disaster declaration.
272 chicago DeKalb County received state disaster area designation from Blagojevich on August 26. received state disaster area designation from  on  .
273 chicago In DeKalb and Sycamore, about 600 residents were displaced from their homes, and the DeKalb campus of Northern Illinois University was closed because of the flood. In DeKalb and , about  residents were displaced from their homes, and the DeKalb campus of    was closed because of the flood.
274 chicago The Fox River at Dayton crested after it rose to more than 17 feet (5 m), over five feet above the river's flood stage. The   at  crested after it rose to more than  feet ( m), over  feet above the river's flood stage.
275 chicago In Plano, Illinois the Fox rose up around the historic Farnsworth House, a modern architecture masterpiece designed by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe. In ,  the Fox rose up around the historic  , a mon architecture masterpiece designed by     .
276 chicago Preservationists used a boat to save the home and its furnishings, which previously had been devastated by high water in 1996. Preservationists used a boat to save the home and its furnishings, which  had been devastated by high water in .
277 chicago With the boat, preservationists were able to enter the house and move vulnerable furnishings to higher locations within the home. With the boat, preservationists were able to enter the house and move vulnerable furnishings to higher locations within the home.
278 chicago Water rose to within a foot of the Farnsworth House's raised platform, covering the terrace in front of the home, but the river crested before any damage occurred. Water rose to within a foot of the  's raised platform, covering the terrace in front of the home, but the river crested before any damage occurred.
279 chicago At Starved Rock State Park, parking lots were closed due to the level of the Illinois River, which stood at 26.5 feet on August 25, 6.5 feet (2 m) above its flood stage. At Starved Rock State Park, parking lots were closed due to the level of the  , which stood at  feet on  ,  feet ( m) above its flood stage.
280 chicago As a consequence of Hurricane Ike damaging the Houston area, two games between the Houston Astros and Chicago Cubs were relocated to Miller Park in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. As a consequence of Hurricane Ike damaging the  area,  games between the   and   were relocated to   in , .
281 chicago Although Milwaukee was picked as a "neutral" site whose retractable roof would ensure the game would be played in the event of inclement weather, Miller Park's location  from Chicago – and well over  from Houston – resulted in a decidedly pro-Cubs crowd in a series where Houston was officially designated as the home team. Although  was picked as a "neutral" site whose retractable roof would ensure the game would be played in the event of inclement weather,  's location  from  – and well over  from  – resulted in a decidedly  crowd in a series where  was officially designated as the home team.
282 chicago Adding to the controversy from the Houston perspective was the fact that Turner Field in Atlanta had been suggested by the players' union as a potential neutral site. Adding to the controversy from the  perspective was the fact that Turner Field in  had been suggested by the players' union as a potential neutral site.
283 chicago This would mark the second time in as many years that a series was moved to neutral Miller Park due to weather, as a series between the Seattle Mariners and Cleveland Indians was relocated there one year earlier as a consequence of snow storms in northern Ohio. This would mark the  time in as many  that a series was moved to neutral Miller Park due to weather, as a series between the   and   was relocated there    as a consequence of snow storms in northern .
284 chicago Moisture from Lowell eventually joined with a cold front and the remnants of Hurricane Ike and caused significant damage. Moisture from  eventually joined with a cold front and the remnants of Hurricane Ike and caused significant damage.
285 chicago As this conglomeration of moisture traveled through the United States it caused extensive flooding in Illinois. As this conglomeration of moisture traveled through the   it caused extensive flooding in .
286 chicago In Chicago it broke flooding records dating back to 1871. In  it broke flooding records dating back to .
287 chicago Southwest of Manzanillo, Mexico, the area of thunderstorms strengthened into Tropical Storm Lowell on the night of September 6. Southwest of , , the area of thunderstorms strengthened into Tropical Storm  on the night of  .
288 chicago The system skipped tropical depression status and was named "Lowell". The system skipped tropical depression status and was named "Lowell".
289 chicago Lowell slowly strengthened into a 50 mph Tropical Storm. slowly strengthened into a  mph Tropical Storm.
290 chicago A tropical storm watch was issued for southern Baja California as the storm headed north, but it weakened to a tropical depression on September 9. A tropical storm watch was issued for southern   as the storm headed north, but it weakened to a tropical depression on  .
291 chicago The next day Tropical Depression Lowell made landfall with 35 mph winds. Tropical Depression  made landfall with  mph winds.
292 chicago It moved inland and dissipated  on September 11. It moved inland and dissipated  on  .
293 chicago The remnants of Tropical Storm Lowell continued across the United States and joined with a cold front bringing heavy rains to the central northern states before tracking into Canada. The remnants of Tropical Storm  continued across the   and joined with a cold front bringing heavy rains to the central northern states before tracking into .
294 chicago It caused the heaviest rainstorm ever recorded in Chicago since records began in 1877. It caused the heaviest rainstorm ever recorded in  since records began in .
295 chicago Over 1,000 flight cancellations were reported at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport, and numerous flight cancellations also occurred at Toronto's Pearson International Airport. Over  flight cancellations were reported at 's   , and numerous flight cancellations also occurred at 's Pearson  .
296 chicago In Milwaukee, whiteout conditions and 13 inches (33 cm) of snow briefly shut down the General Mitchell International Airport. In , whiteout conditions and  inches ( cm) of snow briefly shut down the    .
297 chicago Near Madison, Wisconsin, about 1,000 vehicles were stranded on Interstate 90 due to the snow. Near Madison, , about  vehicles were stranded on Interstate  due to the snow.
298 chicago Wisconsin Governor Jim Doyle declared a state of emergency for the area and activated the Wisconsin National Guard. Governor   declared a state of emergency for the area and activated the  National Guard.
299 chicago On February 6, numerous schools, colleges, government buildings, churches, businesses, and shopping malls were forced to close throughout southern Wisconsin and northern Illinois due to the inclement weather. On  , numerous schools, colleges, government buildings, churches, businesses, and shopping malls were forced to close throughout southern  and northern  due to the inclement weather.
300 chicago The winter storm was responsible for at least four deaths: one each in Illinois, Wisconsin, Michigan and Quebec. The  storm was responsible for at least  deaths:  each in , ,  and .
301 chicago April showers brought more bad weather and injuries to the club. showers brought more bad weather and injuries to the club.
302 chicago Michael Harrington joined Zusi as the most recently injured when he also went down in training with a hamstring strain. joined  as the most  injured when he also went down in training with a hamstring strain.
303 chicago The patchwork defense returned home for the first Sunday match of the season featuring rookie and 1st round pick Matt Besler in the back line against a then potent attacking SJ Earthquakes team. The patchwork defense returned home for    match of  season featuring rookie and  round pick   in  back line against a n potent attacking SJ Earthquakes team.
304 chicago For the second week in a row the club faced difficult weather conditions (freezing rain and wind gusts up to 40 MPH). For        club fced difficult wer conditions (freezg r nd wd gusts up to  MPH).
305 chicago They responded with a better effort, shutting out the Quakes and securing their first win of the season 2-0. They responded with a better effort, shutting out the Quakes and securing their  win of the season .
306 chicago Week 4 brought a trip to Seattle to face the undefeated expansion Sounders. brought a trip to  to face the undefeated expansion .
307 chicago The Wizards controlled the first half despite not scoring and saw the Sounders go down a man in the 29th minute when goalkeeper Kasey Keller used his hands outside of the box to deflect a scoring chance from the fast breaking Herculez Gomez. The Wizards controlled   half despite not scoring and saw   go down a man in    when goalkeeper   used his hands outside of  box to deflect a scoring chance from  fast breaking  .
308 chicago The Wizards couldn't capitalize in the first half and the Sounders looked the better side in the second half until Davy Arnaud launched a game-winning missile from 30 yards out in the 80th minute to deliver the first goal surrendered and first loss to Seattle. The Wizards couldn't capitalize in    and   looked  better side in    until   launched a game-winning missile from  yards out in    to deliver   goal surrendered and  loss to .
309 chicago The road trip continued onto the Eastern Conference leading Chicago Fire. The road trip continued onto the Eastern Conference leading  Fire.
310 chicago The Fire sharply outplayed the relatively sluggish Wizards for the entire first half and most of the second half, with Brian McBride scoring two early goals. The Fire sharply outplayed the relatively sluggish Wizards for the entire  half and most of the  half, with   scoring  early goals.
311 chicago However goalkeeper Kevin Hartman made several spectacular saves to prevent Chicago from any further scoring, and the Wizards were able to muster a comeback late in the second half, with Josh Wolff scoring two goals of his own to equalize the match 2-2. However goalkeeper   made several spectacular saves to prevent  from any further scoring, and the  were able to muster a comeback late in the  half, with   scoring  goals of his own to equalize the match .
312 chicago The Wizards welcomed New York to town for the first ever ESPN telecast from Community America Ballpark, Red Bull defender Carlos Johnson took Herculez Gomez down in the box just two minutes into the match and received a red card for denying an obvious goal-scoring opportunity. The Wizards welcomed   to town for the  ever  telecast from   ,   defender   took   down in the box just   into the match and received a red card for denying an obvious goal-scoring opportunity.
313 chicago Neither team played particularly well following the ejection of Johnson but Kansas City got the three points as a result of Claudio López slotting the resulting penalty kick past newly reinstated Jon Conway, who had served the longest "performance-enhancing drug" suspension ever in Major League Soccer. Neither team played particularly well following the ejection of  but   got the  points as a result of   slotting the resulting penalty kick  newly reinstated  , who had served the longest "performance-enhancing drug" suspension ever in   .
314 chicago Jack Jewsbury didn't make the final road trip of April to Toronto as a result of the concussion he suffered just days earlier. didn't make the final road trip of  to  as a result of the concussion he suffered just  .
315 chicago The Wizards missed their holding midfielder as TFC played their first match under interim manager Chris Cummins as John Carver stepped down. The  missed their holding midfielder as  played their  match under interim manager   as   stepped down.
316 chicago Toronto was also missing star player Dwayne De Rosario (injured) but Danny Dichio's scramble goal in the 54th minute and TFC's clean sheet was enough to end the Wizards 18 regular season game streak of scoring at least one goal (second longest in the team history). was also missing star player    (injured) but  's scramble goal in    and 's clean sheet was enough to end    regular season game streak of scoring at least  goal ( longest in  team history).
317 chicago Curt Onalfo's April ended with his family being in a car wreck on the way to the final home game and him personally being fined for comments he made to the officials following the lost in Toronto which he explained was a result of having his passport stolen just days before the trip and having to fly to Colorado to secure a new one in person(The fine was paid for by the club's supporters group as a sign of respect for all he had been through). 's  ended with his family being in a car wreck on the way to the final home game and him personally being fined for comments he made to the officials following the lost in  which he explained was a result of having his passport stolen just  before the trip and having to fly to  to secure a new  in person(The fine was paid for by the club's supporters group as a sign of respect for all he had been through).
318 chicago Heavy rain in parts of the Midwest prompted the National Weather Service to issue Flood Warnings for many areas. Heavy rain in parts of the  prompted the    to issue Flood Warnings for many areas.
319 chicago The max rainfall amount recorded so far is  in Little Rock, Arkansas. The max rainfall amount recorded so far is  in  , .
320 chicago Freezing rain fell across Iowa and Illinois, affecting travel to and from O'Hare International Airport. Freezing rain fell across  and , affecting travel to and from   .
321 chicago The Chicago area saw as much as ten inches of snow following the freezing rain and sleet. The  area saw as much as  inches of snow following the freezing rain and sleet.
322 chicago width=100% border="2" cellpadding="4" style="border-collapse:collapse; text-align:center;" |[http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/204001/Dernier-Match/1163/Pontivy-PSG width=100% border="" cellpadding="" style="border-collapse:collapse; text-align:center;" |[http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/0001/Dernier-Match/1163/Pontivy-PSG
323 chicago 0 &ndash; 2] |[http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/204001/Dernier-Match/1164/Nantes-PSG &ndash; ] [http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/41/Dernier-Match/1164/Nantes-PSG
324 chicago 0 &ndash; 2] |[http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/204001/Dernier-Match/1165/PSG-Panthrakikos 1 &ndash; 1] |[http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/204001/Dernier-Match/1167/Fiorentina-PSG &ndash; ] [http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/4/Dernier-Match/65/PSG-Panthrakikos  &ndash; ] [http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/4/Dernier-Match/67/Fiorentina-PSG
325 chicago 0 &ndash; 3] |[http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/204001/Dernier-Match/1162/Glasgow-Rangers-PSG 1 &ndash; 0] |[http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/204001/Dernier-Match/1161/Atletico-Madrid-PSG 1 &ndash; 1] |[http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/204001/Dernier-Match/1169/PSG-Braga 3 &ndash; 1] |[http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/204001/Dernier-Match/1172/Vannes-PSG &ndash; ] [http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/24/Dernier-Match/62/Glasgow-Rangers-PSG  &ndash; ] [http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/24/Dernier-Match/6/Atletico-Madrid-PSG  &ndash; ] [http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/24/Dernier-Match/69/PSG-Braga  &ndash; ] [http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/24/Dernier-Match/72/Vannes-PSG
326 chicago 0 &ndash; 4] |Giuly , Leugueun , Maurice , Erdinç  |[http://www.chicago-fire.com/news/2010/05/fall-paris-saint-germain-1-0 &ndash; ]  ,  ,  , Erdinç  [http://www.chicago-fire.com/news/21/5/fall-paris-saint-germain-1-
327 chicago 0 &ndash; 1] |align="left"| Red Star Belgrade |[http://www.chicago-fire.com/news/2010/05/red-star-edge-psg 1 &ndash; 1]7–6 p. width=100% border="2" cellpadding="4" style="border-collapse:collapse; text-align:center;" |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44992 1 &ndash; 1] |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44980 3 &ndash; 1] |Philippe Malige (Languedoc-Roussillon) |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44989 2 &ndash; 3] |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44669 3 &ndash; 0] |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44677 2 &ndash; 0] |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44960 1 &ndash; 1] |Fredy Fautrel (Basse-Normandie) |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44695 1 &ndash; 1] |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44706 1 &ndash; 1] |Stéphane Lannoy (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44662 1 &ndash; 0] |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/45001 1 &ndash; 0] |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44735 1 &ndash; 1] |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44998 1 &ndash; 4] |Clément , Chantôme , Erdinç , Luyindula  |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44751 &ndash; ] align="left" Red Star  [http://www.chicago-fire.com/news//5/red-star-edge-psg  &ndash; ]– p. width=% border="" cellpadding="" style="border-collapse:collapse; text-align:center;" [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/99  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/98  &ndash; ]   () [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/989  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/9  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/9  &ndash; ]   (Basse-Normandie) [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/95  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/  &ndash; ] Stéphane Lannoy (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/5  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/5  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/998  &ndash; ] Clément , Chantôme , Erdinç ,   [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/5
328 chicago 0 &ndash; 1] |Antony Gautier (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44756 2 &ndash; 5] |Chantôme , Luyindula , Erdinç , Maurice  |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44768 1 &ndash; 0] |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/45003 1 &ndash; 0] |Damien Ledentu (Languedoc-Roussillon) |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44744 3 &ndash; 0] |Luyindula , Sessègnon , Erdinç  |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44789 1 &ndash; 0] |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44799 4 &ndash; 0] |Luyindula , Armand , Erdinç , Jallet  |Stéphane Lannoy (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44806 3 &ndash; 1] |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44817 &ndash; ]   (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/76  &ndash; ] Chantôme ,  , Erdinç ,   [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/768  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/  &ndash; ]   () [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/7  &ndash; ]  ,  , Erdinç  [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/789  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/799  &ndash; ]  ,  , Erdinç ,   Stéphane Lannoy (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/86  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/87
329 chicago 0 &ndash; 1] |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44818 2 &ndash; 1] |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44835 &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/4488  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/44835
330 chicago 0 &ndash; 3] |Philippe Malige (Languedoc-Roussillon) |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44848 &ndash; ]   () [http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44848
331 chicago 0 &ndash; 0] |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44855 1 &ndash; 0] |Stéphane Lannoy (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44865 &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/44855  &ndash; ] Stéphane Lannoy (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/44865
332 chicago 0 &ndash; 3] |Antony Gautier (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44871 1 &ndash; 1] |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44884 4 &ndash; 1] |Alexandre Castro (Rhône-Alpes) |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44893 1 &ndash; 0] |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44902 3 &ndash; 0] |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44905 1 &ndash; 1] |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44922 3 &ndash; 1] |Alexandre Castro (Rhône-Alpes) |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44933 &ndash; ]   (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/87  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/88  &ndash; ]   (Rhône-Alpes) [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/89  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/92  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/95  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/922  &ndash; ]   (Rhône-Alpes) [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/9
333 chicago 0 &ndash; 0] |Philippe Malige (Languedoc-Roussillon) |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44942 1 &ndash; 1] |Damien Ledentu (Languedoc-Roussillon) |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44947 4 &ndash; 0] |Stéphane Lannoy (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44954 2 &ndash; 2] |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/45031 1 &ndash; 0] |[http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/45025 1 &ndash; 3] |Alexandre Castro (Rhône-Alpes) width=100% border="2" cellpadding="4" style="border-collapse:collapse; text-align:center;" |[http://www.deux-zero.com/index.php?Code=CF&Item=Fiche&Edition=2009-2010&MatchId=16382 5 &ndash; 0] |Luyindula , Erdinç , Chantôme , Maurice  |Hervé Piccirillo (Île-de-France) |[http://www.deux-zero.com/index.php?Code=CF&Item=Fiche&Edition=2009-2010&MatchId=16410 3 &ndash; 1] |[http://www.deux-zero.com/index.php?Code=CF&Item=Fiche&Edition=2009-2010&MatchId=16425 0 &ndash; 1] |Damien Ledentu (Languedoc-Roussillon) |[http://www.footballdatabase.eu/football.coupe.auxerre.paris-s-g.107137.en.html 0 &ndash; 0](a.e.t.) 5–6 p. |[http://www.deux-zero.com/index.php?Code=CF&Item=Fiche&Edition=2009-2010&MatchId=16431 0 &ndash; 1] |Fredy Fautrel (Basse-Normandie) |[http://www.deux-zero.com/index.php?Code=CF&Item=Fiche&Edition=2009-2010&JourneeId=2449 0 &ndash; 1](a.e.t.) width=100% border="2" cellpadding="4" style="border-collapse:collapse; text-align:center;" |[http://www.ligue1.com/coupeLigue/feuille_match/53534 &ndash; ]   () [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/9  &ndash; ]   () [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/97  &ndash; ] Stéphane Lannoy (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/9  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/  &ndash; ]   (Rhône-Alpes) width=% border="" cellpadding="" style="border-collapse:collapse; text-align:center;" [http://www.deux-zero.com/index.php?Code=CF&Item=Fiche&Edition=9-&MatchId=8  &ndash; ]  ,  , Chantôme ,   Hervé Piccirillo (Île-de-France) [http://www.deux-zero.com/index.php?Code=CF&Item=Fiche&Edition=9-&MatchId=  &ndash; ] [http://www.deux-zero.com/index.php?Code=CF&Item=Fiche&Edition=9-&MatchId=  &ndash; ]   () [http://www.footballdatabase.eu/football.coupe.auxerre.paris-s-g.77.en.html  &ndash; ](a.e.t.) – p. [http://www.deux-zero.com/index.php?Code=CF&Item=Fiche&Edition=9-&MatchId=  &ndash; ]   (Basse-Normandie) [http://www.deux-zero.com/index.php?Code=CF&Item=Fiche&Edition=9-&JourneeId=9  &ndash; ](a.e.t.) width=% border="" cellpadding="" style="border-collapse:collapse; text-align:center;" [http://www.ligue.com/coupeLigue/feuille_match/
334 chicago 0 &ndash; 1] |[http://www.ligue1.com/coupeLigue/feuille_match/53522 1 &ndash; 0] width=100% border="2" cellpadding="4" style="border-collapse:collapse; text-align:center;" |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=6242 0 &ndash; 3] |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=6247 5 &ndash; 0] |Ayachi , Bompastor ,Coton-Pélagie , Pizzala , Stribick-Burckel  |Karine Lasalle (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=6252 0 &ndash; 1] |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=6257 1 &ndash; 0] |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=6263 0 &ndash; 4] |Bompastor , Ayachi , Delannoy , Coton-Pélagie  |Nathalie Mittelbronn (Lorraine) |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=6269 5 &ndash; 0] |Bompastor , Abily , Pizzala , Guerin  |Cindy Gosselin (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=6279 0 &ndash; 0] |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=6285 0 &ndash; 1] |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=6291 7 &ndash; 0] |Bussaglia , Poulain , Abily ,Boyeldieu , Bompastor , Prévost  |Nathalie Mittelbronn (Lorraine) |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=6296 1 &ndash; 1] |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=6302 4 &ndash; 0] |Florence Guillemin (Franche-Comté) |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=6313 0 &ndash; 1] |Dorothée Ily (Languedoc-Roussillon) |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=6319 9 &ndash; 0] |Abily , Poulain ,Bompastor , Delannoy , Boyeldieu  |Emilie Mougeot (Franche-Comté) |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=6324 3 &ndash; 0] |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=6330 3 &ndash; 0] |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=6336 1 &ndash; 1] |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=6346 1 &ndash; 2] |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=6352 6 &ndash; 0] |Boyeldieu , Soyer , Pizzala , Boulleau  |Nathalie Mittelbronn (Lorraine) |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=6358 0 &ndash; 5] |Prévost , Ayachi , Coton-Pélagie  |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=6363 0 &ndash; 0] |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=6369 1 &ndash; 2] |Gwendoline Défente (Rhône-Alpes) |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=6308 2 &ndash; 0] |Karine Lasalle (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) width=100% border="2" cellpadding="4" style="border-collapse:collapse; text-align:center;" |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=7730 1 &ndash; 2] |Cindy Gosselin (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=7735 0 &ndash; 0]5–4 p. |Karine Lasalle (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=7743 2 &ndash; 4] |Pizzala , Thomas , Lepailleur , Houara  |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=7747 1 &ndash; 1]3–2 p. |Florence Guillemin (Franche-Comté) |[http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=7748 5 &ndash; 0] |Boyeldieu , Pizzala , Coton-Pélagie , Bussaglia &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/coupeLigue/feuille_match/  &ndash; ] width=% border="" cellpadding="" style="border-collapse:collapse; text-align:center;" [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ]  ,  , ,  , Stribick-Burckel    (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ]  ,  ,  ,     () [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ]  , Abily ,  ,     (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=8  &ndash; ] [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ]  ,  , Abily , ,  , Prévost    () [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ]   (Franche-Comté) [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] Dorothée Ily () [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] Abily ,  , ,  ,     (Franche-Comté) [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ]  ,  ,  ,     () [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=8  &ndash; ] Prévost ,  ,   [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ]   (Rhône-Alpes) [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=8  &ndash; ]   (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) width=% border="" cellpadding="" style="border-collapse:collapse; text-align:center;" [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ]   (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ]– p.   (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ]  ,  , Lepailleur ,   [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ]– p.   (Franche-Comté) [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=8  &ndash; ]  ,  ,  ,
335 chicago It was felt across most of Ontario and Quebec, as well as parts of the northeastern United States, in addition to places as far as Chicago, Baltimore, Charleston, West Virginia, and Halifax. It was felt across most of  and , as well as parts of the northeastern  , in addition to places as far as , , ,  , and .
336 chicago It was the first moderate earthquake associated with the Western Quebec Seismic Zone since 20 April 2002, when the area was affected by magnitude 5.1 Mw tremors. It was the  moderate earthquake associated with the     since   02, when the area was affected by magnitude  Mw tremors.
337 chicago Southern Ontario was also affected by the 1998 magnitude 5.2 Mw Pymatuning earthquake, associated with a different seismic region (Southern Great Lakes Seismic Zone). Southern  was also affected by the  magnitude  Mw Pymatuning earthquake, associated with a different seismic region (Southern Great Lakes Seismic Zone).
338 chicago CME Group, a large futures exchange, stated that, insofar as stock index futures traded on CME Group were concerned, its investigation found no evidence that high-frequency trading played a role, and in fact concluded that automated trading had contributed to market stability during the period of the crash. , a large futures exchange, stated that, insofar as stock index futures traded on   were concerned, its investigation found no evidence that high-frequency trading played a role, and in fact concluded that automated trading had contributed to market stability during the period of the crash.
339 chicago Others speculate that an intermarket sweep order may have played a role in triggering the crash. Others speculate that an intermarket sweep order may have played a role in triggering the crash.
340 chicago #"The fat-finger theory:" "Disproved." #"The fat-finger theory:" "Disproved."
341 chicago In the immediate aftermath of the plunge, several reports indicated that the event may have been triggered by a fat-finger trade, an inadvertent large "sell order" for Procter & Gamble stock, inciting massive algorithmic trading orders to dump the stock; however, this theory was quickly disproved after it was determined that Procter and Gamble's decline occurred after a significant decline in the E-mini S&P 500 Futures contracts. In the immediate aftermath of the plunge, several reports indicated that the event may have been triggered by a fat-finger trade, an inadvertent large "sell order" for    stock, inciting massive algorithmic trading orders to dump the stock; however, this theory was quickly disproved after it was determined that   's decline occurred after a significant decline in the E-mini SP  Futures contracts.
342 chicago The "fat-finger trade" hypothesis was also disproved when it was determined that existing CME Group and ICE safeguards would have prevented such an error. The "fat-finger trade" hypothesis was also disproved when it was determined that existing   and ICE safeguards would have prevented such an error.
343 chicago Currently, the fat-finger theory is not considered credible. , the fat-finger theory is not considered credible.
344 chicago #"Impact of High Frequency traders:" "Regulators found HFT's exacerbated price declines." #"Impact of High Frequency traders:" "Regulators found HFT's exacerbated price declines."
345 chicago As noted above, regulators found that high frequency traders exacerbated price declines. As noted above, regulators found that high frequency traders exacerbated price declines.
346 chicago Regulators determined that high frequency traders sold aggressively to eliminate their positions and withdrew from the markets in the face of uncertainty. Regulators determined that high frequency traders sold aggressively to eliminate their positions and withdrew from the markets in the face of uncertainty.
347 chicago A July, 2011 report by the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), an international body of securities regulators, concluded that while "algorithms and HFT technology have been used by market participants to manage their trading and risk, their usage was also clearly a contributing factor in the flash crash event of May 6, 2010." A   report by the      () an international body  securities regulators concluded that while "algorithms and HFT technology have been used by market participants to manage their trading and risk their usage was also clearly a contributing factor in the flash crash event    ."
348 chicago Other theories postulate that the actions of high frequency traders (HFTs) was the underlying cause of the flash crash. Other theories postulate that the actions of high frequency traders (HFTs) was the underlying cause of the flash crash.
349 chicago One hypothesis, based on the analysis of bid-offer data by Nanex, Llc., is that HFTs send non-executable orders (orders that are outside the bid-offer spread) to exchanges in batches. hypothesis based on the analysis of bid-offer data by   is that HFTs send non-executable orders (orders that are outside the bid-offer spread) to exchanges in batches.
350 chicago Though the purpose of these orders is unknown, some experts speculate that their purpose is to increase noise, clog exchanges, and outwit competitors. Though the purpose of these orders is unknown, some experts speculate that their purpose is to increase noise, clog exchanges, and outwit competitors.
351 chicago However, other experts believe that deliberate market manipulation is unlikely because there is no practical way in which the HFTs can profit from these orders, and it is more likely that these orders are designed to test latency times and to detect early price trends. However, other experts believe that deliberate market manipulation is unlikely because there is no practical way in which the HFTs can profit from these orders, and it is more likely that these orders are designed to test latency times and to detect early price trends.
352 chicago Whatever the reasons behind the possible existence of these orders, this theory postulates that they exacerbated the crash by overloading the exchanges on May 6. Whatever the reasons behind the possible existence of these orders, this theory postulates that they exacerbated the crash by overloading the exchanges on  .
353 chicago On September 3, 2010 the regulators probing the crash concluded: "that quote-stuffing – placing and then almost immediately cancelling large numbers of rapid-fire orders to buy or sell stocks – was not a “major factor” in the turmoil." On    the regulators probing the crash concluded: "that quote-stuffing – placing and then almost immediately cancelling large numbers of rapid-fire orders to buy or sell stocks – was not a “major factor” in the turmoil."
354 chicago Some have put forth the theory High-frequency trading actually have been a major factor in minimizing and reversing the flash crash. Some have put forth the theory  trading actually have been a major factor in minimizing and reversing the flash crash.
355 chicago #"Large directional bets:" "Regulators say a large E-Mini S&P 500 seller set off a chain of events triggering the Flash Crash, but did not identify the firm." #"Large directional bets:" "Regulators say a large E-Mini   seller set off a chain of events triggering the Flash Crash, but did not identify the firm."
356 chicago Earlier, some investigators suggested that a large purchase of put options on the S&P 500 index by the hedge fund Universa Investments shortly before the crash may have been among the primary causes. Earlier, some investigators suggested that a large purchase of put options on the   index by the hedge fund   shortly before the crash may have been among the primary causes.
357 chicago Other reports have speculated that the event may have been triggered by a single sale of 75,000 E-mini S&P 500 contracts valued at around $4 billion by the Overland Park, Kansas firm Waddell & Reed on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. Other reports have speculated that the event may have been triggered by a single sale of  E-mini   contracts valued at around $4 billion by the  ,  firm    on the   .
358 chicago Others suspect a movement in the U.S. Dollar to Japanese Yen exchange rate. Others suspect a movement in the  Dollar to   exchange rate.
359 chicago #"Changes in market structure:" Some market structure experts speculate that, whatever the underlying causes, equity markets are vulnerable to these sort of events because of decentralization of trading. #"Changes in market structure:" Some market structure experts speculate that, whatever the underlying causes, equity markets are vulnerable to these sort of events because of decentralization of trading.
360 chicago #"Technical glitches:" An analysis of trading on the exchanges during the moments immediately prior to the flash crash reveals technical glitches in the reporting of prices on the NYSE and various ATSs that might have contributed to the drying up of liquidity. #"Technical glitches:" An analysis of trading on the exchanges during the moments immediately prior to the flash crash reveals technical glitches in the reporting of prices on the  and various ATSs that might have contributed to the drying up of liquidity.
361 chicago According to this theory, technical problems at the NYSE led to delays as long as five minutes in NYSE quotes being reported on the Consolidated Quotation System (CQS) with time stamps indicating that the quotes were current. According to this theory, technical problems at the  led to delays as long as   in  quotes being reported on the Consolidated Quotation System (CQS) with time stamps indicating that the quotes were .
362 chicago However, some market participants (those with access to NYSE's own quote reporting system, OpenBook) could see both correct current NYSE quotes, as well as the delayed but apparently current CQS quotes. However, some market participants (those with access to 's own quote reporting system, OpenBook) could see both correct   quotes, as well as the delayed but apparently  CQS quotes.
363 chicago At the same time, there were errors in the prices of some stocks (Apple Inc., Sothebys, and some ETFs). At the same time, there were errors in the prices of some stocks ( , , and some ETFs).
364 chicago Confused and uncertain about prices, many market participants attempted to drop out of the market by posting stub quotes (very low bids and very high offers) and, at the same time, many high-frequency trading algorithms attempted to exit the market with market orders (which were executed at the stub quotes) leading to a domino effect that resulted in the flash crash plunge. Confused and uncertain about prices, many market participants attempted to drop out of the market by posting stub quotes (very low bids and very high offers) and, at the same time, many high-frequency trading algorithms attempted to exit the market with market orders (which were executed at the stub quotes) leading to a domino effect that resulted in the flash crash plunge.
365 chicago Prior to Week 14, the inflatable roof of the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome, home of the Minnesota Vikings, buckled and tore as a result of heavy snowfall in Minneapolis, spilling snow onto Mall of America field and rendering the stadium unusable for the remainder of the Vikings' season. Prior to  , the inflatable roof of the    , home of the  , buckled and tore as a result of heavy snowfall in , spilling snow onto Mall of  field and rendering the stadium unusable for the remainder of the ' season.
366 chicago The Vikings' scheduled home game against the New York Giants was moved to Detroit's Ford Field and postponed to a 7:20 pm EST kickoff on Monday. The ' scheduled home game against the    was moved to 's Ford Field and postponed to a 7:20 pm EST kickoff on .
367 chicago Though stadium workers were initially "optimistic" that the roof could be repaired before the Vikings faced the Chicago Bears on December 20, stadium officials determined that such a repair would not be possible in that time frame and the game was moved to TCF Bank Stadium. Though stadium workers were initially "optimistic" that the roof could be repaired before the  faced the  Bears on  , stadium officials determined that such a repair would not be possible in that time frame and the game was moved to   .
368 chicago For the Midwest became more related to the extreme high humidity, above normal rainfall from thunderstorms across much of Iowa, Wisconsin, Nebraska and Illinois in the previous month leading up to the heat wave caused dew points to soar; in Newton, Iowa where temperatures had been in the mid-90s F, the dew point reached  on July 14, one of the highest ever recorded in the United States. For   became more related to  extreme high humidity, above normal rainfall from thunderstorms across much of , ,  and  in    leading up to  heat wave caused dew points to soar; in ,  where temperatures had been in   F,  dew point reached  on  ,  of  highest ever recorded in   .
369 chicago The heat index reached  in Newton, Chicago's dew point of , matching readings from the 1995 heat wave that caused many deaths. The heat index reached  in , 's dew point of , matching readings from the  heat wave that caused many deaths.
370 chicago Omaha, Des Moines and St. Louis also experienced high humidity levels. ,   and   also experienced high humidity levels.
371 chicago Westboro Baptist Church planned on protesting the funerals of the dead. planned on protesting the funerals of the dead.
372 chicago The residents of the city were mortified and several local groups created a "Shield of support" around the funeral processions with thousands attending, standing in large groups around the city. The residents of the city were mortified and several local groups created a "Shield of support" around the funeral processions with thousands attending, standing in large groups around the city.
373 chicago FEMA and IEMA began doing preliminary damage assessments on 5 March 2012 to determine the need for public assistance from FEMA. and IEMA began doing preliminary damage assessments on    to determine the need for public assistance from .
374 chicago The storm damage in Harrisburg dominated national airwaves for several days with both Anderson Cooper, and Diane Sawyer doing special reports. The storm damage in  dominated national airwaves for   with both  , and   doing special reports.
375 chicago Both the New York Times and Chicago Tribune wrote articles on the resilient history and nature of Harrisburg in the wake of the tornado and floods that have hit the city since its founding in 1889. Both the       wrote articles on the resilient history  nature of  in the wake of the tornado  floods that have hit the city since its founding in .
376 chicago The tornado moved eastward before striking the town of Ridgway, where additional severe damage occurred. The tornado moved eastward before striking the town of , where additional severe damage occurred.
377 chicago In Ridgway, the tornado damaged about 140 homes and businesses, causing 1 critical injury and 12 minor injuries. In , the tornado damaged about  homes and businesses, causing  critical injury and 2 minor injuries.
378 chicago Numerous cars were tossed around, mainly on the east side of Ridgway. Numerous cars were tossed around, mainly on the east side of .
379 chicago A large church building and a half dozen grain bins were completely destroyed. A large church building and a half  grain bins were completely destroyed.
380 chicago Final assessment rated the tornado as an EF4 with wind gusts estimated at Final assessment rated the tornado as an EF4 with wind gusts estimated at
381 chicago The "Punch A.J." campaign was inspired by an incident on May 20, 2006 between Pierzynski and Chicago Cubs catcher Michael Barrett. The "Punch A.J." campaign was inspired by an incident on   06 between  and   catcher  .
382 chicago After a fly ball out, Pierzynski tagged up at 3rd and tried to score on the throw. After a fly ball out,  tagged up at  and tried to  on the throw.
383 chicago After a collision at home, where Pierzynski knocked Barrett from his feet, Pierzynski slapped home plate with his hand. After a collision at home, where  knocked  from his feet,  slapped home plate with his hand.
384 chicago After getting up, Barrett grabbed Pierzynski and punched him in the face. After getting up,  grabbed  and punched him in the face.
385 chicago A bench-clearing brawl ensued, and Pierzynski, Barrett, White Sox outfielder Brian Anderson and Cubs first baseman John Mabry were ejected. A bench-clearing brawl ensued, and , ,   outfielder   and   baseman   were ejected.
386 chicago Later in 1993, while pitching against the White Sox in Chicago, Sele was involved in one of baseball's more memorable brawls. Later in , while pitching against the   in ,  was involved in  of baseball's more memorable brawls.
387 chicago After two consecutive inside pitches, George Bell charged the mound. After  consecutive inside pitches,   charged the mound.
388 chicago Sele, seeming to have a plan, did not move until Bell was feet from him, about to throw a punch. , seeming to have a plan, did not move until  was feet from him, about to throw a punch.
389 chicago At the last second, Sele slipped to his left as Bell threw the punch and the burly Mo Vaughn, having rushed to the mound from first base, crashed into Bell. At   ,  slipped to his left as  threw  punch and    , having rushed to  mound from  base, crashed into .
390 chicago Bell flipped backwards in the air, crashing to the ground as both of the benches emptied and the teams made their way to the mound [http://www.jokaroo.com/extremesports/baseball/baseballfight-georgebellaaronsele.html]. Bell flipped backwards in the air, crashing to the ground as both of the benches emptied and the teams made their way to the mound [http://www.jokaroo.com/extremesports/baseball/baseballfight-georgebellaaronsele.html].
391 chicago Steel eventually formed a tag team with Danny Dominion first known as the L.A. Connection in Windy City Wrestling then the "Hollywood Hardbodies". Steel eventually formed a tag team with    known as the L.A. Connection in Windy City Wrestling then the "Hollywood Hardbodies".
392 chicago Along with Dominion, Steel operated the Steel Domain, a professional wrestling school and minor independent promotion, in Chicago between 1997 and 2001. Along with Dominion,  operated the  , a professional wrestling school  minor independent promotion, in  between   .
393 chicago Steel also wrestled for the Minnesota-based "St. Steel also wrestled for the  "St.
394 chicago Paul Championship Wrestling" promotion and the St. Louis-based promotion "Mississippi Valley Wrestling Alliance". Paul Championship Wrestling" promotion and the   promotion "  Wrestling Alliance".
395 chicago In early 2003 Steel joined Ring of Honor and reformed the Hatebreed with CM Punk. In   Steel joined Ring of Honor and reformed the Hatebreed with CM Punk.
396 chicago On March 22, Punk and Steel faced Punk's enemy Raven and another student of Steel's, Colt Cabana, in a tag match. On  ,  and Steel faced 's enemy  and another student of Steel's,  , in a tag match.
397 chicago Cabana appeared to badly injure himself after botching a moonsault to the outside of the ring, forcing Raven to wrestle the majority of the match single-handedly. appeared to badly injure himself after botching a moonsault to the outside of the ring, forcing  to wrestle the majority of the match single-handedly.
398 chicago Raven eventually managed to defeat Steel following an Evenflow DDT, but, after the match, Cabana turned on him and aligned himself with his friend, Punk, and his trainer, Steel. eventually managed to defeat Steel following an  , but, after the match,  turned on him and aligned himself with his friend, , and his trainer, Steel.
399 chicago Punk, Cabana and Steel named themselves the "Second City Saints" (as all the stable members were from the "second city", Chicago). Punk,  and  named themselves the " City Saints" (as all the stable members were from the " city", ).
400 chicago The Second City Saints started a feud with The Prophecy, mostly B.J. Whitmer and Dan Maff. started a feud with  Prophecy, mostly   and  .
401 chicago The rivalry led to a Chicago Street Fight. The rivalry led to a  Street Fight.
402 chicago The match had many dangerous spots including a Spear through a barbed wire board, a splash from inside the ring to the outside onto Maff on a ladder supported by the guardrails, and a Tombstone Piledriver off the top rope through a table. The match had many dangerous spots including a Spear through a barbed wire board, a splash from inside the ring to the outside onto Maff on a ladder supported by the guardrails, and a Tombstone Piledriver off the top rope through a table.
403 chicago Despite his backstage role, Pearce made occasional wrestling appearances in ROH, notably during Caged Collision pay-per-view in Chicago on January 31, 2009, taking the pin in the Steel Cage main event. Despite his backstage role  made occasional wrestling appearances in ROH notably during   pay-per-view in  on    taking the pin in the Steel Cage main event.
404 chicago He also appeared at the "7th Anniversary Show" in New York, NY on March 21, 2009, losing to Bobby Dempsey in 30 seconds, and at "Eye of the Storm 2" on December 18, 2009 in Manassas, VA, where he teamed with Matt Classic in a loss to The Set. He also appeared at the " Anniversary Show" in    on    losing to   in   and at "Eye of the Storm " on    in   where he teamed with   in a loss to The Set.
405 chicago Pearce's highest level ROH match since Cage of Death also came in a cage against Homicide at "The Chicago Spectacular: Night 2", which Pearce lost. 's highest level ROH match since Cage of Death also came in a cage against Homicide at "The  Spectacular: Night ", which  lost.
406 chicago Pearce had originally challenged Homicide to the first strap match in ROH history, only to have Homicide rebuke it and throw out the cage challenge. had originally challenged  to the  strap match in ROH history, only to have  rebuke it and throw out the cage challenge.
407 chicago Pearce went on to attack and seemingly cost Homicide his chance at the ROH World Title at "Final Battle 2006" in Homicide's match against Bryan Danielson. went on to tack and seemingly cost Homicide his chance  the     " Btle " in Homicide's mch against  .
408 chicago ROH Senior Officials would have nothing of it and restarted the match, which Homicide eventually won. ROH Senior Officials would have nothing of it and restarted the match, which  eventually won.
409 chicago The feud with Homicide seemingly went to the wayside, as Pearce started interaction with Pelle Primeau and Delirious. The feud with  seemingly went to the wayside, as  started interaction with   and Delirious.
410 chicago At the end of the episode, it seems that Hawkeye's quest will finally be complete as the ribs are cooked and ready to eat. At the end of the episode, it seems that 's quest will finally be complete as the ribs are cooked and ready to eat.
411 chicago However, just as he is about to dig in, wounded are brought to the camp and Hawkeye is foiled. However, just as he is about to dig in, wounded are brought to the camp and  is foiled.
412 chicago The episode ends with Hawkeye stammering, as he is being pulled away from the table by Trapper and Col. Blake: "But the ribs...they're right there, and we have them...we called all the way to Chicago...we had to trick Mildred, one rib, a tiny rib, just one little riblet ..." The episode ends with  stammering, as he is being pulled away from the table by  and Col. : "But the ribs...they're right there, and we have them...we called all the way to ...we had to trick ,  rib, a tiny rib, just  little riblet ..."
413 chicago A few days later the ribs arrive but are stuck at supply. the ribs arrive but are stuck at supply.
414 chicago Hawkeye and Trapper go down to try to negotiate them from a stubborn supply sergeant, who is willing to help once he finds out where they're from (as he lives in Joliet, a Chicago suburb, and is a huge fan of Adam's Ribs). and  go down to try to negotiate them from a stubborn supply sergeant, who is willing to help  he finds out where they're from (as he lives in , a  suburb, and is a huge fan of 's Ribs).
415 chicago The supply sergeant offers to release the ribs in exchange for 20 pounds of ribs and a quart of sauce which Hawkeye counters with 10 pounds of ribs and a pint of sauce. The supply sergeant offers to release the ribs in exchange for 20 pounds of ribs and a quart of sauce which  counters with 10 pounds of ribs and a pint of sauce.
416 chicago After settling on 12 pounds of ribs and a pint and a half of the barbecue sauce going to the sergeant, Hawkeye and Trapper head back to the 4077th. After settling on 12 pounds of ribs and a pint and a half of the barbecue sauce going to the sergeant,  and  head back to the 4077th.
417 chicago A few hours later, Hawkeye and Trapper are brainstorming as to how they're going to get the ribs from Chicago to the 4077th as Adam's Ribs doesn't deliver and Hawkeye called for a pickup order. ,  and Trapper are brainstorming as to how they're going to get the ribs from  to the 4077th as dam's Ribs doesn't deliver and  called for a pickup order.
418 chicago An angry Klinger, who was wearing a stole that he prized when he became an unwilling target for Hawkeye's lunch, becomes a beacon of hope as he has an uncle in Chicago. An angry , who was wearing a stole that he prized when he became an unwilling target for 's lunch, becomes a beacon of hope as he has an uncle in .
419 chicago However, Klinger refuses to help because he won't be able to get his Section 8 discharge papers signed (although both Hawkeye and Trapper are willing, none of the other three officers in the camp would do it as three signatures are required). However,  refuses to help because he won't be able to get his Section  discharge papers signed (although both  and  are willing, none of the other  officers in the camp would do it as  signatures are required).
420 chicago Fortunately for Hawkeye, Trapper remembers a woman named Mildred Feeny with whom he had a "three-night stand" years ago and calls her to ask for help. Fortunately for , Trapper remembers a woman named   with whom he had a "three-night stand"   and calls her to ask for help.
421 chicago Mildred comes through for Trapper and Hawkeye and the ribs are on their way to Korea from Chicago's Midway Airport in a box marked "RUSH MEDICAL SUPPLIES." comes through for  and  and the ribs are on their way to  from 's   in a box marked "RUSH MEDICAL SUPPLIES."
422 chicago The aerial cloudscapes painted by Georgia O'Keeffe in the 1960s and 1970s are a special case. The aerial cloudscapes painted by   in   and  are a special case.
423 chicago Many of them are not landscapes at all, since they don't show any land. Many of them are not landscapes at all, since they don't show any land.
424 chicago They depict images of clouds viewed from above, suspended in blue sky, with the land below nowhere to be seen; it is the view of clouds regarded at a downward and sideways angle, as from the window of an airplane. They depict images of clouds viewed from above, suspended in blue sky, with the land below nowhere to be seen; it is the view of clouds regarded at a downward and sideways angle, as from the window of an airplane.
425 chicago These paintings depict a kind of "pseudo-horizon," formed not where land meets sky but where the suspended layer of clouds—a "pseudo-ground"—meets the empty upper sky. These paintings depict a kind of "pseudo-horizon," formed not where land meets sky but where the suspended layer of clouds—a "pseudo-ground"—meets the empty upper sky.
426 chicago (See the external link below for an image of O'Keeffe's gigantic 1965 aerial cloudscape entitled "Sky Above Clouds IV", housed at the Art Institute of Chicago). (See the external link below for an image  's gigantic  aerial cloudscape entitled "Sky Above Clouds ", housed at the    ).
427 chicago The flight flew from Chicago to Springfield, Illinois uneventfully, but when it touched down at Springfield Airport, the flight had been delayed by 45 minutes. The flight flew from  to ,  uneventfully, but when it touched down at  , the flight had been delayed by  .
428 chicago At 20:20 local time, the aircraft took off from Springfield. At 20:20 local time, the aircraft took off from .
429 chicago Roughly 1.5 minutes after takeoff, the crew reported a 'slight electrical problem' and would keep air traffic control 'advised'. Roughly   after takeoff, the crew reported a 'slight electrical problem' and would keep air traffic control 'advised'.
430 chicago Twelve minutes after takeoff,  the first officer reported to the captain that the left generator was 'totally dead' and that the right generator was producing voltage but wouldn't stay on the line. after takeoff,  the  officer reported to the captain that the left generator was 'totally dead' and that the right generator was producing voltage but wouldn't stay on the line.
431 chicago Roughly 20 minutes after takeoff, the crew shut off excess lights in the cabin, and meanwhile the voltage of the right generator kept on falling. Roughly   after takeoff, the crew shut off excess lights in the cabin, and meanwhile the voltage of the right generator kept on falling.
432 chicago The first officer then mistakenly isolated the right generator and the radio contact was lost a few minutes later. The  officer then mistkenly isolted the right genertor nd the rdio contct ws lost    lter.
433 chicago At 20:52, the captain decided to descend to 2400 feet, from there the aircraft slowly descended into a hilly pasture area. At 20:52, the captain decided to descend to  feet, from there the aircraft slowly descended into a hilly pasture area.
434 chicago The crew may have attempted a forced landing before the aircraft crashed, or a disoriented pilot mistook strip lighting at a mine for approach lights at Carbondale Airport. The crew may have attempted a forced landing before the aircraft crashed, or a disoriented pilot mistook strip lighting at a mine for approach lights at  .
435 chicago All ten on board perished. All  on board perished.
436 chicago When confronted by Captain Demerest, Guerrero briefly considers giving the attache containing the bomb until a male passenger yells out to a passenger exiting the lavatory that Guerrero has a bomb. When confronted by Captain ,  briefly considers giving the attache containing the bomb until a male passenger yells out to a passenger exiting the lavatory that  has a bomb.
437 chicago Guerrero, holding the case close to him, runs into the lavatory at the rear of the aircraft and triggers the bomb. , holding the case close to him, runs into the lavatory at the rear of the aircraft and triggers the bomb.
438 chicago The detonation blows a hole in the wall of the lavatory and Guerrero with it. The detonation blows a hole in the wall of the lavatory and  with it.
439 chicago Chief Stewardess Gwen Meighen (Jacqueline Bisset), who is having an affair with the married Demerest and is pregnant with Demerest's child, is injured in the explosion and subsequent rapid decompression. Chief Stewardess   ( ), who is having an affair with the married  and is pregnant with 's child, is injured in the explosion and subsequent rapid decompression.
440 chicago With all airports east of Chicago unusable due to bad weather, the plane returns to Lincoln International for an emergency landing, even though another airliner stuck in snow has closed the primary runway. With all airports east of  unusable due to bad weather, the plane returns to   for an emergency landing, even though another airliner stuck in snow has closed the primary runway.
441 chicago TWA (Trans World Airlines, an actual airline of the time) chief mechanic at Lincoln, Joe Patroni (George Kennedy) is enlisted by Bakersfeld to lead the efforts to move the stuck aircraft, another Boeing 707, even though it belongs to a different airline, TGA (Trans Global Airlines, a fictional airline and the parent company of the film's "Golden Argosy" jet)  Patroni, who is "taxi-qualified" on Boeing 707s, is trying to move the stuck aircraft in time for Demerest's damaged aircraft to land. (  , an actual airline of the time) chief mechanic at ,   ( ) is enlisted by  to lead the efforts to move the stuck aircraft, another  , even though it belongs to a different airline, TGA (  , a fictional airline and the parent company of the film's "Golden Argosy" jet)  , who is "taxi-qualified" on  s, is trying to move the stuck aircraft in time for 's damaged aircraft to land.
442 chicago By exceeding the Boeing 707 flight manual's engine operating parameters, Patroni frees the stuck jet, allowing Lincoln International's primary runway to be reopened just in time to permit the crippled "Golden Argosy" to land. By exceeding the   flight manual's engine operating parameters,  frees the stuck jet, allowing  's primary runway to be reopened just in time to permit the crippled "Golden Argosy" to land.
443 chicago Hostak would have two bouts in 1944 while stationed in Houston, Texas, scoring a pair of knockouts. would have  bouts in  while stationed in , , scoring a pair of knockouts.
444 chicago He would make his post-war return in June 1946 and would win four more bouts by knockout over modest opposition. He would make his post-war return in   and would win  more bouts by knockout over modest opposition.
445 chicago Hostak would take on his first significant opponent in January 1947, when he faced longtime middleweight contender Steve Belloise in Houston. would take on his  significant opponent in  , when he faced longtime middleweight contender   in .
446 chicago He would knock Belloise down in the 1st round, but was eventually knocked out himself in the 4th round. He would knock  down in the  round, but was eventually knocked out himself in the  round.
447 chicago After a 5th-round TKO over Anton Raadik in Chicago, Hostak would avenge his loss to Belloise by winning a decision in Seattle in August 1947. After a 5th-round TKO over   in ,  would avenge his loss to  by winning a decision in  in  .
448 chicago With the win, the 31-year old Hostak again earned a rating as a middleweight contender. With the win, the    again earned a rating as a middleweight contender.
449 chicago After another hand injury induced layoff, Hostak returned in February 1941 with a knockout win in Chicago, followed up by two more knockouts in April and May in Seattle, before returning to Chicago to face Zale in a third fight on May 28, 1941. After another hand injury induced layoff  returned in   with a knockout win in  followed up by  more knockouts in  and  in  before returning to  to face  in a  fight on   .
450 chicago Hostak opened fast, knocking Zale down, though he was up before a count could be administered. opened fast, knocking  down, though he was up before a count could be administered.
451 chicago In the 2nd round, Zale pounded Hostak to the body, dropping him eight times, before he was finally counted out at 2:32 of the round. In the  round,  pounded  to the body, dropping him  times, before he was finally counted out at 2:32 of the round.
452 chicago In November, Hostak would make his first and only appearance at Madison Square Garden, against former middleweight champion Ken Overlin. In ,  would make his  and only appearance at Madison Square Garden, against former middleweight champion  .
453 chicago Overlin easily outboxed a befuddled Hostak, who threw very few punches on his way to losing a lopsided decision. easily outboxed a befuddled , who threw very few punches on his way to losing a lopsided decision.
454 chicago After an October 1939 non-title knockout over Charley Coates, Hostak signed for his first bout ever outside of the state of Washington, facing German-Jewish refugee Erich Seelig in Cleveland on December 11, 1939. After an   non-title knockout over    signed for his  bout ever outside of the state of  facing  refugee   in  on   .
455 chicago Seelig though was no match for Hostak, who knocked him out in 1:21 of the 1st round. though was no match for , who knocked him out in 1:21 of the  round.
456 chicago In January 1940, Hostak would take a non-title match in Chicago against middleweight contender Tony Zale at Chicago Stadium. In  ,  would take a non-title match in  against middleweight contender   at  .
457 chicago Hostak would knock Zale down in the 1st round, howeverr Hostak would break his hand in the 5th round, as Zale swept the last five rounds, to take a unanimous decision. would knock  down in the  round, howeverr  would break his hand in the  round, as  swept the last  rounds, to take a unanimous decision.
458 chicago Melgard's most notable performance came during a boxing match at Chicago Stadium during the 1940s. 's most notable performance came during a boxing match at   during  .
459 chicago As the story (fact mixed with some fiction) goes, the fight ended with an extremely unpopular decision. As the story (fact mixed with some fiction) goes, the fight ended with an extremely unpopular decision.
460 chicago The capacity crowd became unruly and a riot on the floor broke out with folding chairs flying. The capacity crowd became unruly and a riot on the floor broke out with folding chairs flying.
461 chicago Melgard supposedly tried to calm the uproar with a religious song and then the Star-Spangled Banner. supposedly tried to calm the uproar with a religious song and then the Star-Spangled Banner.
462 chicago When that didn't work, Melgard opened up most of the 800-plus stops on the huge Barton organ, floored the volume pedal and laid his hands flat on the middle keyboards. When that didn't work,  opened up most of the 800-plus stops on the huge  organ, floored the volume pedal and laid his hands flat on the middle keyboards.
463 chicago The resulting sound blew out many of the lights over the arena floor. The resulting sound blew out many of the lights over the arena floor.
464 chicago Stunned, the fans stopped fighting, picked up their hats and coats, and exited the building. Stunned, the fans stopped fighting, picked up their hats and coats, and exited the building.
465 chicago In January , Spohrer tried his hand at boxing, losing in four rounds by technical knockout to Chicago White Sox player Art Shires at the Boston Garden. In  ,  tried his hand at boxing, losing in  rounds by technical knockout to    player   at the  .
466 chicago Ironically, the two players became roommates when Shires joined the Braves in 1932. Ironically, the  players became roommates when  joined the  in .
467 chicago He returned to ROH along with Chris Sabin on March 30, 2007, following the Briscoe Brothers winning the ROH World Tag Team Championship. He returned to  along with   on    following the   winning the     .
468 chicago The two challenged Jay Briscoe for a shot at the title on April 28 in Chicago, then attacked him after he accepted. The  challenged   for a shot at the title on   in , then attacked him after he accepted.
469 chicago The two would ultimately lose the match and leave the company. The  would ultimately lose the match and leave the company.
470 chicago On July 19, 1989, Haynes became famous for his role in the events during a DC-10 flight headed to Chicago, Illinois from Denver, Colorado. On   89  became famous for his role in the events during a  flight headed to   from  .
471 chicago With Haynes as captain, the airliner suffered damage to its number two (center) engine which caused all three of its hydraulic control systems to fail—an unprecedented problem that made the aircraft nearly impossible to fly or land. With  as captain, the airliner suffered damage to its number  (center) engine which caused all  of its hydraulic control systems to fail—an unprecedented problem that made the aircraft nearly impossible to fly or land.
472 chicago Captain Haynes, first officer Record, flight engineer Dvorak, and Fitch (who had been a passenger on the flight but came forward to offer his help) figured out how to gain some control of the plane. Captain ,  officer Record, flight engineer , and  (who had been a passenger on the flight but came forward to offer his help) figured out how to gain some control of the plane.
473 chicago They were eventually able to get the severely disabled airliner to the Sioux City, Iowa airport, where they crash-landed. They were eventually able to get the severely disabled airliner to the  ,  , where they crash-landed.
474 chicago A portion of the fuselage ended up in an adjoining corn field. A portion of the fuselage ended up in an adjoining corn field.
475 chicago Although there were 112 fatalities, a remarkable 185 people survived the crash Although there were  fatalities, a remarkable  people survived the crash
476 chicago Danger is heavily involved with the running of Chicago based female independent circuit independent professional wrestling promotion Shimmer Women Athletes. Danger is heavily involved with the running of  based female independent circuit independent professional wrestling promotion Shimmer Women Athletes.
477 chicago She co-runs the promotion along with Dave Prazak, as well as being an active wrestler and color commentator for the DVDs. She co-runs the promotion along with  , as well as being an active wrestler and color commentator for the DVDs.
478 chicago Her notable feuds in Shimmer have been against Rebecca Knox, Cindy Rogers, and Portia Perez. Her notable feuds in Shimmer have been against  ,  , and  .
479 chicago Flight 1572 was en route from Chicago O'Hare to Hartford's Bradley International Airport on November 12, 1995. Flight  was en route from   to 's Bradley International Airport on   .
480 chicago The flight departed O'Hare over 90 minutes late due to bad weather and delayed connecting passengers. The flight departed O'Hare over   late due to bad weather and delayed connecting passengers.
481 chicago En route the flight received an ACARS printout for the weather at Hartford. En route the flight received an ACARS printout for the weather at .
482 chicago It noted an altimeter setting (atmospheric pressure) of , adding that pressure was falling rapidly in the area. It noted an altimeter setting (atmospheric pressure) of , adding that pressure was falling rapidly in the area.
483 chicago Before making their final approach the pilots were further advised of a wind shear warning and severe thunderstorms for Hartford. Before making their final approach the pilots were further advised of a wind shear warning and severe thunderstorms for .
484 chicago Winds were now out of 170° at  gusting to . Winds were  out of ° at  gusting to .
485 chicago The First Officer checked the Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS) automated weather broadcast for Hartford which reported an altimeter setting of . The  Officer checked the     (ATIS) automated weather broadcast for  which reported an altimeter setting of .
486 chicago For reasons unknown he entered this as  on the altimeter causing it to read approximately  high. For reasons unknown he entered this as  on the altimeter causing it to read approximately  high.
487 chicago The Captain checked the weather radar before beginning the non-precision approach to runway 15. The Captain checked the weather radar before beginning the non-precision approach to runway .
488 chicago It showed no convective cells on the aircraft's path and he turned it off. It showed no convective cells on the aircraft's path and he turned it off.
489 chicago As Flight 1572 began its final approach the crew was advised that the control tower was closing temporarily due to severe weather buckling a window inside the cab. As Flight  began its final approach the crew was advised that the control tower was closing temporarily due to severe weather buckling a window inside the cab.
490 chicago The tower supervisor remained behind to assist the flight. The tower supervisor remained behind to assist the flight.
491 chicago The Captain noticed the autopilot was having difficulty maintaining altitude and heading in the buffeting winds. The Captain noticed the autopilot was having difficulty maintaining altitude and heading in the buffeting winds.
492 chicago Five miles from the airport the aircraft encountered heavy rain and some turbulence. miles from the airport the aircraft encountered heavy rain and some turbulence.
493 chicago The flight continued descending to , the minimum descent altitude (MDA) for the approach. The flight continued descending to , the minimum descent altitude (MDA) for the approach.
494 chicago This was likely  due to the incorrect altimeter setting. This was likely  due to the incorrect altimeter setting.
495 chicago As the crew began to look for the airport the aircraft continued descending. As the crew began to look for the airport the aircraft continued descending.
496 chicago "American Airlines Flight 191" was a regularly scheduled passenger flight from O'Hare International Airport in Chicago, Illinois, to Los Angeles International Airport. "  Flight " was a regularly scheduled passenger flight from    in , , to    .
497 chicago On May 25, 1979, the McDonnell Douglas DC-10-10 operating the flight crashed moments after takeoff from Chicago. On    the   DC-10-10 operating the flight crashed moments after takeoff from .
498 chicago All 258 passengers and 13 crew on board were killed, along with two people on the ground. All  passengers and  crew on board were killed, along with  people on the ground.
499 chicago Until the September 11 attacks, it was the deadliest air disaster in the history of the United States. Until the   attacks, it was the deadliest air disaster in the history of the  .
500 chicago It remains the deadliest aviation accident to occur on U.S. soil, as well as the second deadliest involving a DC-10, after Turkish Airlines Flight 981. It remains the deadliest aviation accident to occur on  soil, as well as the  deadliest involving a DC-10, after   Flight .
501 chicago When it occurred, it was also the third worst aviation disaster in history, and is currently the tenth worst. When it occurred, it was also the  worst aviation disaster in history, and is  the  worst.
502 chicago Having concluded that everything in the world is composed of air, Anaximenes then used his theory to devise a scheme explaining the origins and nature of the earth as well as of the surrounding celestial bodies. Having concluded that everything in the world is composed of air,  then used his theory to devise a scheme explaining the origins and nature of the earth as well as of the surrounding celestial bodies.
503 chicago Air felted to create the flat disk of the earth, which he said was table-like and behaved like a leaf floating on air. Air felted to create the flat disk of the earth, which he said was table-like and behaved like a leaf floating on air.
504 chicago In keeping with the prevailing view of celestial bodies as balls of fire in the sky, Anaximenes proposed that the earth let out an exhalation of air that rarefied, ignited and became the stars. In keeping with the prevailing view of celestial bodies as balls of fire in the sky,  proposed that the earth let out an exhalation of air that rarefied, ignited and became the stars.
505 chicago While the sun is similarly described as being aflame, it is not composed of rarefied air like the stars but rather of earth like the moon; its burning comes not from its composition but rather from its rapid motion.Kirk, G.S., J.E. Raven, and M. Schofield. While the sun is similarly described as being aflame, it is not composed of rarefied air like the stars but rather of earth like the moon; its burning comes not from its composition but rather from its rapid motion.Kirk, ,  , and  .
506 chicago “Anaximenes of Miletus.” “Anaximenes of Miletus.”
507 chicago The Presocratic Philosophers. The Presocratic Philosophers.
508 chicago Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1984. :   , .
509 chicago 152-153. .
510 chicago The moon and sun are likewise considered to be flat and floating on streams of air, and when the sun sets it does not pass under the earth but is merely obscured by higher parts of the earth as it circles around and becomes more distant; the motion of the sun and the other celestial bodies around the earth is likened by Anaximenes to the way that a cap may be turned around the head.Fairbanks, Arthur. The moon and sun are likewise considered to be flat and floating on streams of air, and when the sun sets it does not pass under the earth but is merely obscured by higher parts of the earth as it circles around and becomes more distant; the motion of the sun and the other celestial bodies around the earth is likened by  to the way that a cap may be turned around the head.Fairbanks, .
511 chicago "[http://people.cs.uchicago.edu/~simon/TEACH/28000/DavisUniversal.pdf "[http://people.cs.uchicago.edu/~simon/TEACH/28000/DavisUniversal.pdf
512 chicago Anaximenes]". Anaximenes]".
513 chicago The First Philosophers of Greece. The  Philosophers of .
514 chicago K. Paul, Trench, Trübner & co., ltd., 1898. , Trench,   , ltd., .
515 chicago 20. .
516 chicago Anaximenes used his observations and reasoning to provide causes for other natural phenomena on the earth as well. used his observations and reasoning to provide causes for other natural phenomena on the earth as well.
517 chicago Earthquakes he asserted were the result either of lack of moisture, which causes the earth to break apart because of how parched it is, or of overabundance thereof, which also causes cracks in the earth because of the excess of water. Earthquakes he asserted were the result either of lack of moisture, which causes the earth to break apart because of how parched it is, or of overabundance thereof, which also causes cracks in the earth because of the excess of water.
518 chicago In either case the earth becomes weakened by its cracks and hills collapse, causing earthquakes. In either case the earth becomes weakened by its cracks and hills collapse, causing earthquakes.
519 chicago Lightning is also caused by a violent separation, this time of clouds by winds to create a bright, fire-like flash. Lightning is also caused by a violent separation, this time of clouds by winds to create a bright, fire-like flash.
520 chicago Rainbows are formed when densely compressed air is touched by the rays of the sun.Fairbanks, Arthur. Rainbows are formed when densely compressed air is touched by the rays of the sun.Fairbanks, .
521 chicago "[http://people.cs.uchicago.edu/~simon/TEACH/28000/DavisUniversal.pdf "[http://people.cs.uchicago.edu/~simon/TEACH/28000/DavisUniversal.pdf
522 chicago Anaximenes]". Anaximenes]".
523 chicago The First Philosophers of Greece. The  Philosophers of .
524 chicago K. Paul, Trench, Trübner & co., ltd., 1898. , Trench,   , ltd., .
525 chicago 18;20-21. ;.
526 chicago These examples further show how Anaximenes like the other Milesians looked for the broader picture in nature, seeking unifying causes for diversely occurring events rather than treating each one on a case-by-case basis or attributing them to gods or a personified nature. These examples further show how Anaximenes like the other  looked for the broader picture in nature, seeking unifying causes for diversely occurring events rather than treating each  on a case-by-case basis or attributing them to gods or a personified nature.
527 chicago "Andrzej Fonfara" (born November 4, 1987 in Radom) is a Polish professional boxer currently living in Chicago (IL, USA). " " (born    in ) is a  professional boxer  living in  (IL ).
528 chicago He is current WBC youth light heavyweight World Champion. He is   youth light heavyweight  .
529 chicago On May 20, 2011, he scored a massive sixth-round knockout over Anthony Russell (16-3-1, 5 KOs) in the main event of Windy City Fight Night 17 at the UIC Pavilion in Chicago. On   11 he scored a massive sixth-round knockout over   (  KOs) in the main event of Windy City Fight Night  at the  Pavilion in .
530 chicago With the victory, Fonfara won the vacant WBO NABO title in front of a large crowd of Polish fans including former heavyweight contender Andrew Golota. With the victory,  won the vacant   title in front of a large crowd of  fans including former heavyweight contender  .
531 chicago Poffo started wrestling in 1948 at Karl Pojello's gym in Illinois. started wrestling in  at  's gym in .
532 chicago His first match was in 1949 against Ruffy Silverstein. His  match was in  against  .
533 chicago He sometimes wrestled as The Masked Miser and managed other wrestlers as the Miser. He sometimes wrestled as The Masked Miser and managed other wrestlers as the Miser.
534 chicago He became a villainous character for the first time in 1950. He became a villainous character for the  time in .
535 chicago In the mid-1950s, Bronco Lubich acted as his manager. In  ,   acted as his manager.
536 chicago He won the NWA United States Heavyweight Championship "(Chicago version)" in 1958. He won the  United States Heavyweight Championship "( version)" in .
537 chicago Bush fires, forest fires, and mine fires are generally started by lightning, but also by human negligence or arson. fires, forest fires, and mine fires are generally started by lightning, but also by human negligence or arson.
538 chicago They can burn thousands of square kilometers. They can burn thousands of square kilometers.
539 chicago If a fire intensifies enough to produce its own winds and "weather", it will form into a firestorm. If a fire intensifies enough to produce its own winds and "weather", it will form into a firestorm.
540 chicago A good example of a mine fire is the one near Centralia, Pennsylvania. A good example of a mine fire is the  near , .
541 chicago Started in 1962, it ruined the town and continues to burn today. Started in , it ruined the town and continues to burn .
542 chicago Some of the biggest city-related fires are The Great Chicago Fire, The Peshtigo Fire (both of 1871) and the Great Fire of London in 1666. Some of the biggest city-related fires are The Great  Fire, The  Fire (both of ) and the Great Fire of  in .
543 chicago On October 31, 1947, he had his most famous fight, with future middleweight champion Marcel Cerdan, in Chicago. On    he had his most famous fight with  middleweight champion   in .
544 chicago Cerdan was far ahead on points going into the tenth round, but then Raadik floored him three times and came close to stopping him, only to lose the decision. was far ahead on points going into the  round, but then  floored him  times and came close to stopping him, only to lose the decision.
545 chicago Raadik boxed until 1952, winning some fights and losing more often than he won. boxed until , winning some fights and losing more often than he won.
546 chicago He fought such highly regarded opponents as Carl (Bobo) Olson, Robert Villemain, Steve Belloise, and Harry (Kid) Matthews, but his greatest opportunity was in the past. He fought such highly regarded opponents as  () ,  ,  , and  (Kid) , but his greatest opportunity was in  .
547 chicago In 1963, the Capitol (CWC) promotion may have left the NWA when it was renamed the "World Wide Wrestling Federation". In , the Capitol (CWC) promotion may have left the  when it was renamed the "   ".
548 chicago WWE history lists a tournament final to crown the first WWWF World Heavyweight Champion as Buddy Rogers over Rocca on April 29, 1963 in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, but this tournament is fictitious. WWE history lists a tournament final to crown the      as   over  on    in     but this tournament is fictitious.
549 chicago Rogers had legitimately held the NWA world's title but lost that title to Lou Thesz in Toronto earlier in 1963 in a match—and rematch—ignored by the New York City and Chicago promoters. had legitimately held the  world's title but lost that title to   in  earlier in  in a match—and rematch—ignored by the    and  promoters.
550 chicago On April 26, the most productive storm affected portions of eastern Illinois just southeast of Chicago and portions of northern and central Indiana. On  , the most productive storm affected portions of eastern  just southeast of  and portions of northern and central .
551 chicago Shortly before 11:00 PM, an F4 tornado through a mobile home park and a subdivision north of Lafayette killing three and injuring 70 others across Tippecanoe County. Shortly before 11:00 PM, an F4 tornado through a mobile home park and a subdivision north of  killing  and injuring  others across  .
552 chicago The mobile home park was very heavily damaged with numerous structures being totally demolished. The mobile home park was very heavily damaged with numerous structures being totally demolished.
553 chicago A factory where one of the fatalities was also heavily damaged while the two other fatalities were inside the same home. A factory where  of the fatalities was also heavily damaged while the  other fatalities were inside the same home.
554 chicago Another tornado earlier in the day caused extensive damage to the town of Gainesville, Texas and injuring eight people. Anor tornado earlier in   caused extensive damage to  town of ,  and injuring  people.
555 chicago Several other tornadoes were reported in and around the Gainesville tornado at the same time the parent storm tore through most of the city. Several other tornadoes were reported in and around the  tornado at the same time the parent storm tore through most of the city.
556 chicago Across North Texas near the Red River Valley, over 20 tornadoes were confirmed along that area alone on April 26 from roughly near Wichita Falls to west of Texarkana, Arkansas. Across   near the   , over  tornadoes were confirmed along that area alone on   from roughly near   to west of , .
557 chicago Activity ended on April 27 with weaker tornadoes across Missouri, Kentucky and Tennessee and minimal damage reported. Activity ended on   with weaker tornadoes across ,  and  and minimal damage reported.
558 chicago "Atmospheric conditions required to form tornadoes on a small scale." "Atmospheric conditions required to form tornadoes on a small scale."
559 chicago The Storm Prediction Center in Norman, Oklahoma, had issued only a forecast for general thunderstorms at the time of the tornado, with a "See Text" message for isolated severe weather. The Storm Prediction Center in , , had issued only a forecast for general thunderstorms at the time of the tornado, with a "See Text" message for isolated severe weather.
560 chicago Neither large-scale models nor local soundings by the Chicago office could predict the ultimately small-scale event that caused six supercellular storms to spawn 14 tornadoes. Neither large-scale models nor local soundings by the  office could predict the ultimately small-scale event that caused  supercellular storms to spawn  tornadoes.
561 chicago Prior to this event, all of the weather forecasts for the region originated in Chicago. Prior to this event, all of the weather forecasts for the region originated in .
562 chicago After the failure to provide an accurate forecast for this blizzard, forecasting responsibilities were expanded to include 24-hour coverage and more forecasting offices were created, yielding more accurate local forecasts. After the failure to provide an accurate forecast for this blizzard, forecasting responsibilities were expanded to include  coverage and more forecasting offices were created, yielding more accurate local forecasts.
563 chicago In December 1929, Shires tried his hand at boxing, taking 21 seconds to knockout an unknown fighter named Dan Daly. In  ,  tried his hand at boxing, taking   to knockout an unknown fighter named  .
564 chicago Shires entered the arena wearing a robe with the words "Arthur The Great Shires" printed on back. entered the arena wearing a robe with the words "Arthur The Great " printed on back.
565 chicago It was reported on December 14 that Chicago Cubs player Hack Wilson signed a contract to meet Shires in the ring in January. It was reported on   that   player   signed a contract to meet Shires in the ring in .
566 chicago On December 18, Shires' boxing career suffered a setback when he lost a bout to Chicago Bears football player George Trafton. On  , ' boxing career suffered a setback when he lost a bout to   football player  .
567 chicago Seeing no benefit in fighting a defeated boxer, Wilson backed out of his proposed bout with Shires. Seeing no benefit in fighting a defeated boxer,  backed out of his proposed bout with .
568 chicago In late December, Shires was suspended by the Michigan State Boxing Commission and the National Boxing Association after his boxing manager was alleged to have offered money to a future Shires opponent to lose a fight on purpose. In  ,  was suspended by the     and the    after his boxing manager was alleged to have offered money to a   opponent to lose a fight on purpose.
569 chicago Soon after that revelation, Dan Daly admitted to the Illinois State Boxing Commission that he too had lost his fight to Shires on purpose. Soon after that revelation,   admitted to the     that he too had lost his fight to  on purpose.
570 chicago Shires was eventually cleared from any wrongdoing by the boxing commissions after no evidence was found that he had fixed the fights. was eventually cleared from any wrongdoing by the boxing commissions after no evidence was found that he had fixed the fights.
571 chicago Williams became professional in 1989 and fell short in his first shot at a major championship title, a 1994 split-decision loss to Orlin Norris for the World Boxing Association Cruiserweight Title. became professional in  and fell short in his  shot at a major championship title, a  split-decision loss to   for the World Boxing Association Cruiserweight Title.
572 chicago Williams was knocked out in the third round in a rematch with Norris later that year. was knocked out in the  round in a rematch with  later that .
573 chicago It was not until 1998 that Williams got another shot at a title belt, a 1998 bout with Imamu Mayfield for the International Boxing Federation Cruiserweight Title. It was not until  that  got another shot at a title belt, a  bout with   for the International Boxing Federation Cruiserweight Title.
574 chicago Williams lost the belt in his first defense to cruiserweight phenom Vassiliy Jirov in a seventh-round knockout. lost the belt in his  defense to cruiserweight phenom   in a seventh-round knockout.
575 chicago Williams has since become more of a journeyman than a contender, and has lost in bouts against O'Neil Bell and Kelvin Davis. has since become more of a journeyman than a contender, and has lost in bouts against   and  .
576 chicago His current record is 47-17-1 with 30 KO's. His  record is  with  KO's.
577 chicago In 2010, Williams defeated unbeaten Valente Tinajero (8-0, 4 KO's), beating him clearly on points, on the Holyfield-Botha Undercard. In ,  defeated unbeaten   (,  KO's), beating him clearly on points, on the Holyfield-Botha Undercard.
578 chicago In December 2010, Williams, 46, lost a ten round decision to Carl Davis for the vacant USBO Cruiserweight title in Chicago, Illinois, in perhaps his last major bout. In  , , , lost a  round decision to   for the vacant   title in , , in perhaps his last major bout.
579 chicago Over 1,550 trees in Chicago have been cut down and destroyed to eradicate ALB from Chicago. Over  trees in  have been cut down and destroyed to eradicate ALB from .
580 chicago In New York, over 6000 infested trees resulted in the removal of over 18,000 trees; New Jersey's infestation of over 700 trees lead to the removal and destruction of almost 23,000 trees, Infested trees continue to be discovered. In  , over  infested trees resulted in the removal of over  trees;  's infestation of over  trees lead to the removal and destruction of almost  trees, Infested trees continue to be discovered.
581 chicago 28,000 trees have been removed in Worcester, MA because of the nearly 20,000 trees confirmed to be infested with the Asian longhorned beetle. trees have been removed in ,  because of the nearly  trees confirmed to be infested with the  longhorned beetle.
582 chicago The December 12, 2008 ice storm likely resulted in significant moving of infested downed limbs because of frantic homeowners clearing debris within the infestation following the devastating ice storm. The    ice storm likely resulted in significant moving of infested downed limbs because of frantic homeowners clearing debris within the infestation following the devastating ice storm.
583 chicago This has complicated the eradication effort. This has complicated the eradication effort.
584 chicago A Worcester exterminator has had a beetle in his collection since 1997, and USDA APHIS PPQ has confirmed his finding, meaning the beetle has been in Worcester for at least 13 years, giving it a very long time to move about, especially since vehicles were often parked under infested trees, giving the beetles an opportunity to drop onto cars and be transported elsewhere. A  exterminor has had a beetle in his collection since , and  APHIS PPQ has confirmed his finding, meaning the beetle has been in  for    , giving it a very long time to move about, especially since vehicles were often parked under infested trees, giving the beetles an opportunity to drop onto cars and be transported elsewhere.
585 chicago On December 17 in Edison, New Jersey at "Final Battle 2005", Aries teamed with Strong to defeat Sal Rinauro and Tony Mamaluke for the ROH World Tag Team Championship. On   in ,   at "Final Battle ", Aries teamed with Strong to defeat   and   for the     .
586 chicago The two would then disband Generation Next on June 3, 2006. The  would then disband Generation Next on   .
587 chicago In a first time ever match, Aries took on Pro Wrestling Noah star and former GHC Jr. Heavyweight champion KENTA in Chicago on June 24, but was defeated following KENTA's "Go 2 Sleep". In a  time ever match,  took on Pro Wrestling Noah star and former GHC Jr.	
Heavyweight champion  in  on  , but was defeated following 's "Go  Sleep".
588 chicago From there, he joined Ring of Honor. From there, he joined Ring of Honor.
589 chicago Aries made his ROH main show debut at "ROH: Reborn Stage 2" in Chicago Ridge, Illinois on April 24, 2004. made his ROH main show debut at "ROH: Reborn Stage " in    on  4 004.
590 chicago Aries was unsuccessful, however, losing a four corner survival match also involving Jimmy Rave, Rocky Romero, and the winner, Nigel McGuinness. was unsuccessful, however, losing a  corner survival match also involving  ,  , and the winner,  .
591 chicago Aries was scheduled to return at the May 22 show, Generation Next, to compete in a one night series which would showcase young, upcoming ROH talent. was scheduled to return at the   show, Generation Next, to compete in a  night series which would showcase young, upcoming ROH talent.
592 chicago Alex Shelley, however, hand-picked Aries, along with Roderick Strong and Jack Evans, as members of a new stable (also meant to promote young, upcoming ROH talent) who, instead of earning their spots, would simply take them. , however, hand-picked Aries, along with   and  , as members of a new stable (also meant to promote young, upcoming ROH talent) who, instead of earning their spots, would simply take them.
593 chicago The group took the name Generation Next as their own. The group took the name Generation Next as their own.
594 chicago On November 8, 2009, Hamada made her debut under her full name for Chicago based all female wrestling promotion Shimmer Women Athletes, defeating Mercedes Martinez in a match taped for "Volume 27" and losing to Sara Del Rey in a match taped for "Volume 28". On     made her debut under her full name for  based all female wrestling promotion    defeating   in a match taped for "Volume " and losing to    in a match taped for "Volume 2".
595 chicago On February 5, 2010, Shimmer announced that Hamada would be returning to the company on April 11 for the tapings of Volumes 31 and 32. On    Shimmer announced that  would be returning to the company on   for the tapings of Volumes  and .
596 chicago On "Volume 31" she defeated Daizee Haze and on "Volume 32" she was defeated in the main event by Cheerleader Melissa. On "Volume " she defeated Daizee Haze and on "Volume " she was defeated in the main event by Cheerleader .
597 chicago Hamada returned to Shimmer on September 11, 2010, defeating Tomoka Nakagawa in a match taped for "Volume 33". returned to Shimmer on    defeating   in a match taped for "Volume ".
598 chicago Later that day on "Volume 34" she was defeated by Jessie McKay in a three–way match, which also included Sara Del Rey. Later that  on "Volume " she was defeated by   in a –way match, which also included   .
599 chicago The following day Hamada defeated Shimmer Tag Team Champion Nicole Matthews on "Volume 35" and then took part in an elimination tag team match on "Volume 36", where she, Ayumi Kurihara, Cheerleader Melissa and Serena Deeb defeated Daizee Haze, Madison Eagles, Sara Del Rey and Tomoka Nakagawa. defeated Shimmer Tag Team Champion   on "Volume " and then took part in an elimination tag team match on "Volume ", where she,  ,   and   defeated Daizee Haze,  ,    and  .
600 chicago On March 26, 2011, Hamada took part in the tapings of Volumes 37 and 38, during which she defeated Jessie McKay and Ayumi Kurihara, respectively, in singles matches. On     took part in the tapings of Volumes  and  during which she defeated   and   respectively in singles matches.
601 chicago The following day, after pinning Shimmer Champion Madison Eagles on "Volume 39" in a tag team match, where she teamed with Cheerleader Melissa and Eagles with Sara Del Rey, Hamada was granted a shot at the Shimmer Championship. , after pinning     on "Volume " in a tag team match, where she teamed with   and  with   ,  was granted a shot at the  ship.
602 chicago Later that day, at the tapings of "Volume 40", Hamada was unsuccessful in her attempt to win the title. Later that , at the tapings of "Volume ",  was unsuccessful in her attempt to win the title.
603 chicago Whitmer suffered an ankle injury at the hands of Jacobs at Chicago Ridge, Illinois and was out of action, but appeared at "ROH Survival of the Fittest 2006" to attack Jacobs during his tag match with Colt Cabana against Chris Hero and Claudio Castagnoli. suffered an ankle injury at the hands of  at  ,  and was out of action, but appeared at "ROH Survival of the Fittest " to attack  during his tag match with   against   and  .
604 chicago Whitmer then began stalking Jacobs at the next few shows. then began stalking  at the next few shows.
605 chicago On April 30, 1911, embers from a hayshed near the Kenduskeag Stream ignited nearby buildings, sparking the Great Fire of 1911. On    embers from a hayshed near the   ignited nearby buildings sparking the Great Fire of .
606 chicago The fire would destroy most of the downtown area, forever changing the face of the city, but as after the Great Chicago Fire of 1871, Bangor rose again and prospered. The fire would destroy most of the downtown area, forever changing the face of the city, but as after the Great  Fire of ,  rose again and prospered.
607 chicago Most of the present downtown is listed on the National Register of Historic Places as the Great Fire of 1911 Historic District, while the portion that survived the fire is the 'West Market Square Historic District'. Most of the  downtown is listed on the National Register of Historic Places as the Great Fire of  Historic District, while the portion that survived the fire is the 'West Market Square Historic District'.
608 chicago The tear drop, also called a runner or a floater, is usually performed by undersized players (mainly point guards). The tear drop, also called a runner or a floater, is usually performed by undersized players (mainly point guards).
609 chicago A player usually starts the layup procedure a good distance away from the basket. A player usually starts the layup procedure a good distance away from the basket.
610 chicago The ball is generally released earlier and in a higher arc than the normal layup. The ball is generally released earlier and in a higher arc than the normal layup.
611 chicago The ball should be away before the taller defender has the chance to block it. The ball should be away before the taller defender has the chance to block it.
612 chicago The purpose of this shooting move is to make the defender miss blocking the ball as the ball is released from the hand one moment sooner than expected. The purpose of this shooting move is to make the defender miss blocking the ball as the ball is released from the hand  moment sor than expected.
613 chicago It is so-named because the ball drops down from the high point of the arc like a falling tear drop. It is so-named because the ball drops down from the high point of the arc like a falling tear drop.
614 chicago Gary Payton of the Seattle SuperSonics and John Stockton of the Utah Jazz during their primes, the former in the mid-to-late 90s and the latter in the early-to-mid 90s were considered to have the best tear drops in the game. of the   and   of the   during their primes, the former in the mid-to-late 90s and the latter in the early-to-mid 90s were considered to have the best tear drops in the game.
615 chicago Tony Parker of the San Antonio Spurs frequently uses the tear drop with great success. of the    frequently uses the tear drop with great success.
616 chicago Antawn Jamison of the Cleveland Cavaliers has one of the most highly effective tear drop shots in the league despite being a power forward. of the   has  of the most highly effective tear drop shots in the league despite being a power forward.
617 chicago Ben Gordon of the Detroit Pistons, Juan Carlos Navarro of FC Barcelona, Steve Nash of the Los Angeles Lakers, Chris Paul of the Los Angeles Clippers, Rajon Rondo of the Boston Celtics, J.J. Barea from the Minnesota Timberwolves, and Derrick Rose from the Chicago Bulls are currently known for the tear drop move. of the  ,    of  ,   of the   ,   of the   ,   of the  ,   from the  , and   from the   are  known for the tear drop move.
