0 boston The earthquake was felt sharply in New England, though the date recorded for the event was 26 January 1663, as New England was using the Julian calendar at the time. The earthquake was felt sharply in  , though the date recorded for the event was   , as   was using the  calendar at the time.
1 boston A church record entry made by Reverend S. Danforth from Roxbury, Massachusetts (~ 600 km from the CSZ) indicated the initial shock was felt around 6 pm that evening and several more shocks followed the next morning. A church record entry made by Reverend   from ,  (  km from  CSZ) indicated  initial shock was felt around 6 pm that evening and several more shocks followed   .
2 boston On the shores of Massachusetts Bay, the tops of chimneys were broken on houses and pewter (a malleable metal alloy) was jarred from shelves. On the shores of  , the tops of chimneys were broken on houses and pewter (a malleable metal alloy) was jarred from shelves.
3 boston This level of damage is consistent with a modified Mercalli intensity of VI though this may have been because the early colonials had the capability of producing only relatively weak mortar. This level of damage is consistent with a modified  intensity of VI though   have been because the early colonials had the capability of producing only relatively weak mortar.
4 boston Using this MMI value and the distance from the epicenter one can estimate the magnitude of the earthquake using published intensity-attenuation relations. Using this MMI value and the distance from the epicenter  can estimate the magnitude of the earthquake using published intensity-attenuation relations.
5 boston In a June 2011 report on the earthquake that was published in the "Bulletin of the Seismological Society of America", John E. Ebel, a professor and researcher at Boston College, used these known relations that apply to earthquakes in northeastern North America and determined the magnitude to be 7.3 &mdash; 7.9. In a   report on the earthquake that was published in the "Bulletin  the    ",   , a pressor and researcher at  , used these known relations that apply to earthquakes in northeastern   and determined the magnitude to be  &mdash; .
6 boston Since the 1755 earthquake, Boston and its surrounding towns have become a major metropolitan area. Since the  earthquake,  and its surrounding towns have become a major metropolitan area.
7 boston Much new construction has been built on infill, especially in the Back Bay area, which may be prone to greater shaking and to compaction of the sand and gravel used as fill. Much new construction has been built on infill, especially in the   area, which may be prone to greater shaking and to compaction of the sand and gravel used as fill.
8 boston Many older buildings in the Boston area are built from stone and brick, and are likely to collapse completely during a major earthquake. Many older buildings in the  area are built from stone and brick, and are likely to collapse completely during a major earthquake.
9 boston Given this, modern observers have expressed concern about the effects of another quake in such a major city. Given this, modern observers have expressed concern about the effects of another quake in such a major city.
10 boston A 1990 study by the Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency estimated potential financial losses at between $4 billion and $5 billion, and potential loss of life in the hundreds. A  study by the     estimated potential financial losses at between $4 billion and $5 billion, and potential loss of life in the hundreds.
11 boston As a consequence, the state has updated building codes and zoning laws to require that new construction and additions in vulnerable areas be built to resist earthquakes. As a consequence, the state has updated building codes and zoning laws to require that new construction and additions in vulnerable areas be built to resist earthquakes.
12 boston The "Cape Ann Earthquake" took place off the coast of the British Province of Massachusetts Bay (the present-day American commonwealth of Massachusetts) on November 18, 1755. The "Cape Ann Earthquake" took place off the coast of the British Province of   (the present-day  commonwealth of ) on   .
13 boston At between 6.0 and 6.3 on the Richter scale, it remains the largest earthquake in the history of Massachusetts. At between    on the  scale, it remains the largest earthquake in the history of .
14 boston It damaged hundreds of buildings in Boston and was felt as far north as Nova Scotia and as far south as South Carolina. It damaged hundreds of buildings in  and was felt as far north as   and as far south as  .
15 boston Sailors on a ship more than  offshore felt the quake, and mistook it at first for their ship running aground. Sailors on a ship more than  offshore felt the quake, and mistook it at  for their ship running aground.
16 boston Many residents of Boston and the surrounding areas attributed the quake to God, and it occasioned a brief increase in religious fervor in the city. Many residents of  and the surrounding areas attributed the quake to God, and it occasioned a brief increase in religious fervor in the city.
17 boston Modern studies estimate that if a similar quake shook Boston today, it would result in as much as $5 billion in damage and hundreds of deaths. Modern studies estimate that if a similar quake shook  , it would result in as much as $5 billion in damage and hundreds of deaths.
18 boston The earthquake took place on November 18, 1755, at approximately 4:30 AM. The earthquake took place on    at approximately 4:30 AM.
19 boston Its epicenter is believed to have been offshore, approximately  east of Cape Ann. Its epicenter is believed to have been offshore, approximately  east of  .
20 boston The quake was felt as far north as Halifax, Nova Scotia, south to the Chesapeake Bay and South Carolina, and from Lake George and Lake Champlain in the northwest to a ship  off the east coast. The quake was felt as far north as ,  , south to the   and  , and from   and   in the northwest to a ship  off the east coast.
21 boston Sailors on the ship reported that the quake was so strong, they had feared that they had run aground. Sailors on the ship reported that the quake was so strong, they had feared that they had run aground.
22 boston The region experienced a number of aftershocks, the first of which was a little more than an hour after the quake. The region experienced a number of aftershocks, the  of which was a little     after the quake.
23 boston Most of these aftershocks could not be felt in Boston, affecting only the cape cod northeastern coast of the colony. Most of these aftershocks could not be felt in , affecting only the cape cod northeastern coast of the colony.
24 boston Boston and Cape Ann were the most heavily damaged. and   were the most heavily damaged.
25 boston In Boston, damage was concentrated in areas of infill near the harbor; infill is less sturdy in earthquakes than solid land. In , damage was concentrated in areas of infill near the harbor; infill is less sturdy in earthquakes than solid land.
26 boston From 1,300 to 1,600 chimneys in the city were damaged in some way, the gable ends of some houses collapsed, and a number of roofs were damaged by falling chimneys. From  to  chimneys in the city were damaged in some way, the gable ends of some houses collapsed, and a number of roofs were damaged by falling chimneys.
27 boston Stone chimneys and buildings were damaged in Falmouth (present-day Portland, Maine), Springfield, Massachusetts, and New Haven, Connecticut as well. Stone chimneys and buildings were damaged in  (present-day , ), , , and  ,  as well.
28 boston Some church steeples in Boston were damaged, ending up tilted from vertical. Some church steeples in  were damaged, ending up tilted from vertical.
29 boston Stone fencing in rural areas was damaged. Stone fencing in rural areas was damaged.
30 boston Observers also reported that several springs dried up, new ones were created, and cracks appeared in the ground near Scituate, Lancaster, and Pembroke. Observers also reported that several springs dried up, new ones were created, and cracks appeared in the ground near , , and .
31 boston In this last town, observers noted water and fine sand coming from the crack. In this last town, observers noted water and fine sand coming from the crack.
32 boston Non-structural damage was minor; residents reported damage to china and glassware, and a distiller lost some of his product after a cistern was damaged. Non-structural damage was minor; residents reported damage to china and glassware, and a distiller lost some of his product after a cistern was damaged.
33 boston The Cape Ann earthquake may also have created the first recorded tsunami in U.S. history. The Cape  earthquake may also have created the  recorded tsunami in  history.
34 boston Observers in the Leeward Islands nearly  south of Cape Ann, reported a receding of water followed by a large wave that lifted several boats ashore and left fish floundering on the beach. Observers in the   nearly  south of  , reported a receding of water followed by a large wave that lifted several boats ashore and left fish floundering on the beach.
35 boston Sand blows were common throughout the area, and can still be seen from the air in cultivated fields. Sand blows were common throughout the area, and can still be seen from the air in cultivated fields.
36 boston The shockwaves propagated efficiently through the firm midwestern bedrock, with residents as far away as Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and Norfolk, Virginia, awakened by intense shaking. The shockwaves propagated efficiently through the firm midwestern bedrock, with residents as far away as , , and , , awakened by intense shaking.
37 boston Church bells were reported to ring as far as Boston, Massachusetts and York, Ontario (now Toronto), and sidewalks were reported to have been cracked and broken in Washington, D.C. Church bells were reported to ring as far as ,  and ,  ( ), and sidewalks were reported to have been cracked and broken in ,
38 boston There were also reports of toppled chimneys in Maine. There were also reports of toppled chimneys in .
39 boston In New England, the hurricane produced widespread gale force winds, with damage greatest in Connecticut. In  , the hurricane produced widespread gale force winds, with damage greatest in .
40 boston The lighthouse in Black Rock, Connecticut, was destroyed. The lighthouse in  , , was destroyed.
41 boston Elsewhere in the state, the winds damaged or destroyed churches, houses and small buildings. Elsewhere in the state, the winds damaged or destroyed churches, houses and small buildings.
42 boston Moderate crop damage to fruit was reported as well. Moderate crop damage to fruit was reported as well.
43 boston Strong winds extended into eastern Massachusetts, though little damage was reported in the Boston area. Strong winds extended into eastern , though little damage was reported in the  area.
44 boston In the aftermath of the Battle of Carnifex Ferry in present-day West Virginia, Rutherford B. Hayes of the 23rd Ohio Infantry was camped south of the battlesite, where he wrote about a "very cold rain-storm" in a September 27 letter to his wife Lucy. In the aftermath  the     in present-day  ,     the    was camped south  the battlesite, where he wrote about a "very cold rain-storm" in a   letter to his wife .
45 boston Conditions at the time were characterized by leaking tents and temperatures getting "colder and colder". Conditions at the time were characterized by leaking tents and temperatures getting "colder and colder".
46 boston Hayes wrote, "We were out yesterday P.M. very near to the enemy's works; were caught in the first of this storm and thoroughly soaked. wrote, "We were out  P.M. very near to the enemy's works; were caught in the  of this storm and thoroughly soaked.
47 boston I hardly expect to be dry again until the storm is over." I hardly expect to be dry again until the storm is over."
48 boston Strong winds buffeted the Burlington, New Jersey, area from early evening to midnight on September 27, uprooting trees and causing some damage to property. Strong winds buffeted the ,  , area from early evening to midnight on  , uprooting trees and causing some damage to property.
49 boston Further north, Boston, Massachusetts, experienced intense winds and light rainfall for about five hours starting at midnight, with no initial reports of significant destruction. Further north, , , experienced intense winds and light rainfall for    starting at midnight, with no initial reports of significant destruction.
50 boston However, the hurricane also had a significant impact on land. However, the hurricane also had a significant impact on land.
51 boston Earlier in the year, Union forces had captured the fort guarding Hatteras Inlet at the Battle of Hatteras Inlet Batteries. Earlier in  , Union forces had captured  fort guarding   at  Battle of   Batteries.
52 boston In the early morning hours of November 2, high seas began to overwash Hatteras Island, "completely covering all dry land except the position of the fort itself". In       , high seas began to overwash  , "completely covering all dry land except  position   fort itself".
53 boston After four hours, water began to subside. After  , water began to subside.
54 boston Extremely high tides associated with the cyclone continued up the coast as far north as Portland, Maine. Extremely high tides associated with the cyclone continued up the coast as far north as , .
55 boston Storm tides at various points, including New York City, Newport, Rhode Island, and Boston, reached levels unseen for at least 10 years and up to 46 years. Srm tides  various points, including   , port,  , and , reached levels unseen for     and    .
56 boston In New York, the storm persisted for 20 hours starting early on November 2; rising waters inundated wharves along the East and Hudson Rivers. In  , the storm persisted for   starting early on  ; rising waters inundated wharves along the East and  .
57 boston Floodwaters flowed up to five blocks inland, and a popular bar located in a hotel became isolated by the flooding. Floodwaters flowed up to  blocks inland, and a popular bar located in a hotel became isolated by the flooding.
58 boston In response, a man transported customers to and from the bar on his private boat at a cost of two cents per ride. In response, a man transported customers to and from the bar on his private boat at a cost of two cents per ride.
59 boston Strong winds in Brooklyn brought down trees and telegraph wires. Strong winds in  brought down trees and telegraph wires.
60 boston Infrastructure throughout the Tri-State area suffered. Infrastructure throughout the  area suffered.
61 boston Parts of the New Jersey Railroad line were undermined, and the Shore Line Railway at Bridgeport was inundated. Parts of the    line were undermined, and the Shore Line Railway at  was inundated.
62 boston Flooding was also prominent in the New Jersey Meadowlands and along the Newark Turnpike and Plank Road, which was left temporarily impassible. Flooding was also prominent in the    and along the ark  and  , which was left temporarily impassible.
63 boston Further east, the hurricane triggered coastal flooding along the shores of Long Island, while northeasterly winds blew several ships ashore along the northern coast of Long Island. Further east, the hurricane triggered coastal flooding along the shores of  , while northeasterly winds blew several ships ashore along the northern coast of  .
64 boston The eastern side of the hurricane blasted the southeastern New England coast between November 2 and November 3, damaging over 250 vessels at Provincetown, Massachusetts, and running aground 20 others. The eastern side of the hurricane blasted the southeastern   coast between   and  , damaging over 50 vessels at , , and running aground 0 others.
65 boston Water from the Massachusetts Bay surged into the village of Wareham. Water from the   surged into the village of .
66 boston In downtown Boston, the storm began late on November 2 and lasted until late the next morning, although the highest tides did not occur until after conditions had already cleared. In downtown ,  storm began  on   and lasted until    , although  highest tides did not occur until after conditions had already cleared.
67 boston Twenty-two occupants of the ship "Maritania" drowned when the vessel sank after striking a rock during the worst of the storm. occupants of the ship "Maritania" drowned when the vessel sank after striking a rock during the worst of the storm.
68 boston At the time, she was located  east of the Boston Light. At the time, she was located  east of the  Light.
69 boston At landfall, the hurricane was compact, estimated around  wide. At landfall, the hurricane was compact, estimated around  wide.
70 boston However, less than 10 miles (16 km) west of the center, there were no strong winds. However, less than  miles ( km) west of the center, there were no strong winds.
71 boston The hurricane produced a storm surge of , which was lessened due to it moving ashore at low tide. The hurricane produced a storm surge of , which was lessened due to it moving ashore at low tide.
72 boston In Providence, Rhode Island, high waves damaged coastal wharves and left flooding. In ,  , high waves damaged coastal wharves and left flooding.
73 boston The hurricane weakened quickly over land, passing just west of Boston early on September 9 as a minimal hurricane. The hurricane weakened quickly over land, passing just west of  early on   as a minimal hurricane.
74 boston There, the winds downed many trees and left severe damage. There, the winds downed many trees and left severe damage.
75 boston All telegraph lines between New York and Boston were cut, although the storm did produce beneficial heavy rainfall. All telegraph lines between   and  were cut, although the storm did produce beneficial heavy rainfall.
76 boston Shortly thereafter it dissipated over Maine. Shortly thereafter it dissipated over .
77 boston There was one confirmed death in Massachusetts. There was  confirmed death in .
78 boston Offshore Maine, a schooner capsized, killing all but one in the crew. Offshore , a schor capsized, killing all but  in the crew.
79 boston Hurricane warnings were issued on August 21. Hurricane warnings were issued on  .
80 boston The warnings extended from Cape Hatteras to Boston. The warnings extended from   to .
81 boston The next day the warnings were extended to Southport, North Carolina. the warnings were extended to ,  .
82 boston Evacuations may or may not have taken place. Evacuations may or may not have taken place.
83 boston On September 14, forecasters issued storm warnings from Jacksonville, Florida to Beaufort, North Carolina. On  , forecasters issued storm warnings from ,  to ,  .
84 boston Hours later, the warnings were extended to Virginia. , the warnings were extended to .
85 boston As the storm moved closer to land, forecasters predicted that the hurricane would hit North Carolina in 12 hours. As the storm moved closer to land, forecasters predicted that the hurricane would hit   in  .
86 boston Because of this, hurricane and gale warnings were issued from North Carolina to Boston, Massachusetts. Because of this, hurricane and gale warnings were issued from   to , .
87 boston On November 10, 1948, unseasonably warm temperatures caused a fog bank to occur inside the Boston Garden during a game between the Boston Bruins and Detroit Redwings. On    unseasonably warm temperatures caused a fog bank to occur inside the   during a game between the   and  .
88 boston Referee Bill Chadwick abandoned the game after only 9 minutes of the first period due to poor visibility. Referee   abandoned the game after only   of the  period due to poor visibility.
89 boston The game was replayed the following night, with Boston winning 4-1. The game was replayed   , with  winning .
90 boston Forecasters at the National Weather Service office in Boston believed that there was a possibility for tornadic activity in the area, but decided not to include it in their forecast for the day in fear that they would cause panic among local citizens. Forecasters at     office in  believed that re was a possibility for tornadic activity in  area, but decided not to include it in ir forecast for   in fear that y would cause panic among local citizens.
91 boston 1953 was the first year that tornado and severe thunderstorm warnings were used, so forecasters compromised and issued the first severe thunderstorm watch in the history of Massachusetts. was    that tornado and severe thunderstorm warnings were used, so forecasters compromised and issued   severe thunderstorm watch in  history of .
92 boston Because of this, the tornado struck with little to no warning for residents. Because of this, the tornado struck with little to no warning for residents.
93 boston The earthquake was felt in 23 states and affected a zone of . The earthquake was felt in  states and affected a zone of .
94 boston The shaking extended east to Pennsylvania and West Virginia, south to Mississippi and Alabama, north to Toronto, Canada, and west to Oklahoma. The shaking extended east to  and  , south to  and , north to , , and west to .
95 boston Isolated reports were received from Boston, Mobile, Alabama, Pensacola, Florida, southern Ontario, Arkansas, Minnesota, Tennessee, Georgia, Kansas, Ohio, Mississippi, Kentucky, North Carolina, South Carolina, Missouri, West Virginia, Alabama, Nebraska, Iowa, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Pennsylvania, Michigan, and Wisconsin, presumably because of shaking. Isolated reports were received from , Mobile, , , , southern , , , , , , , , ,  ,  , ,  , , , , ,  , , , and , presumably because of shaking.
96 boston The worst affected areas were in the general area of Evansville, Indiana, St. Louis, and Chicago, but there was no major damage. The worst affected areas were in the general area of , ,  , and , but there was no major damage.
97 boston There were no deaths; the worst injury was a child knocked unconscious by falling debris outside his home. There were no deaths; the worst injury was a child knocked unconscious by falling debris outside his home.
98 boston Eventually, plumbers were dispatched to shut off water to first the individual floors, then entire buildings. Eventually, plumbers were dispatched to shut off water to  the individual floors, then entire buildings.
99 boston By six that night, the Physical Plant director alerted Vice Chancellor for Administration and Finance George Beatty about the impending crisis. By  that night, the Physical Plant director alerted Vice Chancellor for Administration and Finance   about the impending crisis.
100 boston Around forty five minutes later, the town manager was notified of the problem. Around    , the town manager was notified of the problem.
101 boston Around this time, water shortages were beginning to be noticed in the Southwest Residential Area. Around this time, water shortages were beginning to be noticed in the   .
102 boston In the Mildred Pierpont House, toilets wouldn’t stop flushing, a consequence of low water pressure. In the   , toilets wouldn’t stop flushing, a consequence of low water pressure.
103 boston By 9:30 that night, about 3,000 students were without water. By 9:30 that night, about  students were without water.
104 boston Chancellor Henry Koffler returned from meetings in Boston and was subsequently warned by Beatty that if the pressure continued to drop, the steam plant would have to be shut down, and research projects, air conditioning, and electrical systems would also have to be turned off. Chancellor   returned from meetings in  and was subsequently warned by  that if the pressure continued to drop, the steam plant would have to be shut down, and research projects, air conditioning, and electrical systems would also have to be turned off.
105 boston All of this would prove costly. All of this would prove costly.
106 boston By this time, students were travelling to Puffers Pond in North Amherst to clean up. By this time, students were travelling to   in   to clean up.
107 boston The chancellor was also urged by Hayward to close the campus. The chancellor was also urged by  to close the campus.
108 boston The list below shows the names that appeared on the tropical cyclone naming list in the Atlantic basin in 1991. The list below shows the names that appeared on the tropical cyclone naming list in the  basin in .
109 boston Although the Perfect Storm later evolved into a hurricane, the National Hurricane Center left it unnamed due to the heavy damage and media interest in the predecessor extratropical storm. Although the Perfect Storm later evolved into a hurricane, the    left it unnamed due to the heavy damage and media interest in the predecessor extratropical storm.
110 boston It later received the name the "Perfect Storm" after a conversation between Boston National Weather Service forecaster Robert Case and author Sebastian Junger. It later received the name the "Perfect Storm" after a conversation between     forecaster   and author  .
111 boston The names not retired from this list in 1991 appeared again on the naming list for the 1997 season. The names not retired from this list in  appeared again on the naming list for the  season.
112 boston This is the same list used for the 1985 season, with the exception of the names Erika and Grace, which replaced the names Elena and Gloria after the 1985 season, and were used for the first time in 1991. This is the same list used for the  season, with the exception of the names  and Grace, which replaced the names  and  after the  season, and were used for the  time in .
113 boston Names that were not assigned are marked in . that were not assigned are marked in .
114 boston Temperatures accompanying the storm were unseasonably cold for late winter so close to spring: average daily maximum temperatures, in mid-March, are around  in Boston,  in Philadelphia, and  in Atlanta. Temperatures accompanying the storm were unseasonably cold for   so close to : average daily maximum temperatures, in mid-March, are around  in ,  in , and  in .
115 boston During the 1993 storm, these places were all below freezing, and parts of New England saw daily maximum temperatures as low as . During the  storm, these places were all below freezing, and parts of   saw daily maximum temperatures as low as .
116 boston Record low temperatures for March were recorded in much of the southern U.S.  Birmingham recorded a record low of  during the storm. Record low temperatures for  were recorded in much of the southern    recorded a record low of  during the storm.
117 boston At 0605 Axis transports were seen advancing to within 2,000 yards of the 3rd Brigade positions and they were engaged with machine- and anti-tank gun fire from the Imperial Light Horse. At  Axis transports were seen advancing to within  yards of the  Brigade positions and they were engaged with machine- and anti-tank gun fire from the Imperial Light Horse.
118 boston During the early morning hours, the 90th Light had lost direction and veered too far north, resulting in the clash with ILH. During the early morning , the  Light had lost direction and veered too far north, resulting in the clash with ILH.
119 boston While the Rand Light Infantry were driving off German towed artillery, South African Air Force Boston light bombers bombed their supply columns. While the Rand Light Infantry were driving off  towed artillery, South African    light bombers bombed their supply columns.
120 boston By 0730 the 90th Light had been halted and were pinned down by the South Africans, determined to avenge Gazala and the surrender of Tobruk. By  the  Light had been halted and were pinned down by the  , determined to avenge  and the surrender of .
121 boston The 90th Light only managing to extracate themselves under cover of a dust storm later in the day. The  Light only managing to extracate mselves under cover of a dust storm later in  .
122 boston The Axis attack had been stopped all along the Allied line of defence. The  attack had been stopped all along the  line of defence.
123 boston On May 1, 2010, a water pipe in Weston, Massachusetts broke and began flooding into the Charles River. On   200 a water pipe in   broke and began flooding into the  .
124 boston This led to unsanitary water conditions in the greater Boston area which resulted in Governor Deval Patrick declaring a state of emergency and an order for residents to boil drinking water. This led to unsanitary water conditions in the greater  area which resulted in Governor   declaring a state of emergency and an order for residents to boil drinking water.
125 boston The leak was stopped on May 2. On May 4, the order was lifted. The leak was stopped on  .On  , the order was lifted.
126 boston President Barack Obama signed an emergency disaster declaration offering federal help, authorizing the Department of Homeland Security and Federal Emergency Management Agency to coordinate disaster relief efforts with Massachusetts. President   signed an emergency disaster declaration fering federal help, authorizing the          to coordinate disaster relief efforts with .
127 boston The rupture worsened as the afternoon progressed, eventually resulting in the loss of access to clean water from the Quabbin and Wachusett Reservoirs for approximately two million residents of 31 cities and towns, including Boston. The rupture worsened as the afternoon progressed, eventually resulting in the loss of access to clean water from the Quabbin and Wachusett Reservoirs for approximately   residents of  cities and towns, including .
128 boston At the height of the spill, approximately  of water entered the Charles River per hour. At the height of the spill, approximately  of water entered the   per .
129 boston By evening, the Massachusetts Water Resources Authority had activated the backup water system, which was drawing water from the Sudbury Reservoir, Chestnut Hill Reservoir, and Spot Pond Reservoir. By evening, the     had activated the backup water system, which was drawing water from the  ,   , and Spot Pond .
130 boston Because water from these older surface reservoirs is not treated, the MWRA issued a boil order for the affected communities. Because water from these older surface reservoirs is not treated, the  issued a boil order for the affected communities.
131 boston On July 21, 2011, hot weather over the past week culminated into record-breaking temperatures across the province of Ontario, also in Michigan, Ohio, upstate New York and Quebec, shattering long held records. On    hot wear over    culminated into record-breaking temperatures across  province of  also in   upstate   and  shattering long held records.
132 boston Toronto reached  for the first time in nearly 10 years. reached  for the  time in   .
133 boston The humidex reached  at the downtown station by late afternoon. The humidex reached  at the downtown station by late afternoon.
134 boston It was deemed so hot that the unusual decision was made to close the dome at the Rogers Centre during the Toronto Blue Jays baseball game, usually done in the event of cold weather or rain. It was deemed so hot that the unusual decision was made to close the dome at the   during the    baseball game, usually done in the event of cold weather or rain.
135 boston The intense heat moved eastwards and  peaked along the US I-95 corridor on July 22, 2011, with New York City breaking the record for the day at , which was the hottest temperature the city had experienced in over three decades. The intense heat moved eastwards and  peaked along    corridor on    with    breaking  record for   at  which was  hottest temperature  city had experienced in over  .
136 boston Newark, New Jersey also reached an all-time record high of , as did Washington Dulles International Airport in Virginia at . ,   also reached an all-time record high of , as did     in  at .
137 boston Philadelphia surpassed its daily record when it reached , and Boston tied for the second highest temperature on record at , making it the hottest day in 85 years. surpassed its daily record when it reached , and  tied for the  highest temperature on record at , making it the hottest  in  .
138 boston The heat was blamed for at least 25 deaths across the Midwest and the Northeast. The heat was blamed for at least  deaths across the  and the Northeast.
139 boston Daily high temperatures warmer than normal began on the southern plains during May 2011, accompanied by one of the most severe droughts ever recorded. Daily high temperatures warmer than normal began on the southern plains during  , accompanied by  of the most severe droughts ever recorded.
140 boston The heat wave continued to intensify, with temperatures in north Texas exceeding  most days beginning in mid-June. The heat wave continued to intensify, with temperatures in north  exceeding  most  beginning in mid-June.
141 boston The "2011 Vancouver Stanley Cup riot" was a public disturbance that broke out in the downtown core of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada on Wednesday, June 15, 2011. The "    riot" was a public disturbance that broke out in the downtown core of     on    .
142 boston The riots happened immediately after the conclusion of the Boston Bruins' win over the Vancouver Canucks in game seven of the Stanley Cup Finals, which won the Stanley Cup for Boston. The riots happened immediately after the conclusion of the  ' win over the   in game  of the   , which won the   for .
143 boston At least 140 people were reported as injured during the incident, one critically; at least four people were stabbed, nine police officers were injured, and 101 people were arrested that night, with 16 further arrests following the event. At least  people were reported as injured during the incident,  critically; at least  people were stabbed,  police officers were injured, and  people were arrested that night, with  further arrests following the event.
144 boston The earthquake was felt throughout much of the six New England states. The earthquake was felt throughout much of the    states.
145 boston In New Haven, Connecticut, play at the 2011 New Haven Open at Yale tennis tournament was stopped for two hours and the main stadium was evacuated while the fire department checked it for damage. In  , , play at the     at  tennis tournament was stopped for   and the main stadium was evacuated while the fire department checked it for damage.
146 boston No damage or injuries were reported. No damage or injuries were reported.
147 boston In Boston, the Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency reported tremors and swaying buildings but no damage. In , the     reported tremors and swaying buildings but no damage.
148 boston The U.S. District Court in South Boston was evacuated and the University of Massachusetts Boston closed early. The    in   was evacuated and the     closed early.
149 boston In Maine, the earthquake was felt as far north as Augusta and Portland, but no damage was reported in the state. In , the earthquake was felt as far north as  and , but no damage was reported in the state.
150 boston After the publication of his first book about the American Civil War, Lord's literary agent suggested that he write about the Titanic since he knew Lord had researched the subject for his amusement. After the publication of his  book about the   , Lord's literary agent suggested that he write about the  since he knew Lord had researched the subject for his amusement.
151 boston Lord began his research for the book by going to the Library of Congress in Washington D.C. to read the United States inquiry into the sinking. Lord began his research for the book by going to the Library of  in   to read the   inquiry into the sinking.
152 boston Realizing that he would have to interview survivors of the disaster to give him a full understanding of the sinking Lord, who was on a tight buget, began writing letters to the editors of various newspapers asking survivors to get in touch with him. Realizing that he would have to interview survivors of the disaster to give him a full understanding of the sinking Lord, who was on a tight buget, began writing letters to the editors of various newspapers asking survivors to get in touch with him.
153 boston Lord sent his letters to papers in New York, Philadelphia, Boston, Chicago, Southampton, England, and Belfast Ireland places he felt people connected to the Titanic would come from. Lord sent his letters to papers in  , , , , , , and   places he felt people connected to the  would come from.
154 boston Additionally he was put in touch with survivors through 20th Century Fox, who had just released the 1953 movie "Titanic", who had themeselves been in touch with several of the survivors. Additionally he was put in touch with survivors through   , who had just released the  movie "Titanic", who had themeselves been in touch with several of the survivors.
155 boston Lord was eventually able to locate and correspond with nearly 60 survivors. Lord was eventually able to locate and correspond with nearly  survivors.
156 boston After fifteen minutes of combat, "Boston" lost its cross-jack yard and by 05:45 had suffered significant damage to its rigging and sails, rendering the ship significantly less manoeuvrable than "Embuscade". After   of combat, "" lost its cross-jack yard and by 05:45 had suffered significant damage to its rigging and sails, rendering the ship significantly less manoeuvrable than "Embuscade".
157 boston At 06:10 the main topmast was knocked over and the mizzen mast badly damaged, and ten minutes later, as he was exhorting his men to greater efforts, a cannonball struck the rail where Captain Courtenay and Royal Marine Lieutenant James Butler were standing. At 06:10 the main topmast was knocked over and the mizzen mast badly damaged, and   , as he was exhorting his men to greater efforts, a cannonball struck the rail where Captain Couray and   Lieuant   were standing.
158 boston Butler was killed instantly and Courtenay fell to the deck unresponsive, possibly killed. was killed instantly and  fell to the deck unresponsive, possibly killed.
159 boston Believing his commander to be dead, Lieutenant John Edwards assumed command and had the bodies thrown overboard in an effort to prevent his sailors losing morale from the death of their captain. Believing his commander to be dead, Lieutenant   assumed command and had the bodies thrown overboard in an effort to prevent his sailors losing morale from the death of their captain.
160 boston "Boston" continued to suffer under the heavier guns of the French ship and by 06:40 the mizzen mast was close to collapse and much of the remaining rigging had been shot away. "Boston" continued to suffer under the heavier guns of the  ship and by 06:40 the mizzen mast was close to collapse and much of the remaining rigging had been shot away.
161 boston Casualties mounted, with Lieutenant Edwards and Alexander Kerr both badly wounded, the latter blinded and the former struck on the head and briefly rendered unconscious. Casualties mounted, with Lieutenant  and   both badly wounded, the latter blinded and the former struck on the head and briefly rendered unconscious.
162 boston On 5 May, , lying in wait off Point Judith, Rhode Island, sighted and fired on SS "Black Point", a collier underway for Boston, Massachusetts. On  , , lying in wait off Point ,  , sighted and fired on SS "Black Point", a collier underway for , .
163 boston Her torpedoes struck, and within 15 minutes, "Black Point" had capsized in  of water, the last US-flagged merchant ship sunk in World War II. Her torpedoes struck, and within  , "Black Point" had capsized in  of water, the last  merchant ship sunk in   .
164 boston Twelve men died and 34 were rescued. men died and  were rescued.
165 boston One of the rescuing ships — SS "Kamen" — sent a report of the torpedoing that was picked up the destroyer , destroyer escorts  and , and frigate ; they discovered "U-853" bottomed in , and dropped more than 100 depth charges through the night. of the rescuing ships — SS "Kamen" — sent a report of the torpedoing that was picked up the destroyer , destroyer escorts  and , and frigate ; they discovered "U-853" bottomed in , and dropped more than  depth charges through the night.
166 boston The next morning, two blimps from Lakehurst, New Jersey — "K-16" and "K-58" — joined the attack, locating oil slicks and marking suspected locations with smoke and dye markers. ,  blimps from ,   — "K-16" and "K-58" — joined the attack, locating oil slicks and marking suspected locations with smoke and dye markers.
167 boston "K-16" also attacked with  rocket bombs. "K-16" also attacked with  rocket bombs.
168 boston Finally, planking, life rafts, a chart tabletop, clothing, and an officer's cap floated to the surface, indicating destruction with all 55 men. Finally, planking, life rafts, a chart tabletop, clothing, and an officer's cap floated to the surface, indicating destruction with all  men.
169 boston "U-853" was destroyed at sometime between midnight, when success was first claimed, and 1225, when it was confirmed. "U-853" was destroyed at sometime between midnight, when success was  claimed, and , when it was confirmed.
170 boston In contrast, in the Central and Eastern U.S. (CEUS) the crust is thicker, colder, older, and more stable. In contrast, in the Central and Eastern  (CEUS) the crust is thicker, colder, older, and more stable.
171 boston Furthermore, the CEUS is thousands of miles from active plate boundaries, so the rates of deformation are low in this region. Furthermore, the CEUS is thousands of miles from active plate boundaries, so the rates of deformation are low in this region.
172 boston Nevertheless, the CEUS has had some rather large earthquakes in historical times, including a series of major earthquakes near New Madrid, Missouri in 1811-1812, a large earthquake near Charleston, South Carolina in 1886, and the Cape Ann earthquake northeast of Boston in 1755. Nevertheless, the  has had some rather large earthquakes in historical times, including a series of major earthquakes near  ,  in , a large earthquake near ,   in , and the   earthquake northeast of  in .
173 boston This particular DC-9 had experienced a number of problems over the months leading up to the incident; 76 maintenance reports had been filed in the plane's logs in the previous year, and the CVR records Cameron telling Ouimet to "put [the tripping breakers] in the book there" when the breakers fail to respond to the first reset attempt at 18:52. This particular DC-9 had experienced a number of problems over   leading up to  incident;  maintenance reports had been filed in  plane's logs in   , and   records  telling  to "put [ tripping breakers] in  book re" when  breakers fail to respond to   reset attempt at 18:52.
174 boston Nearly four years earlier, on September 17, 1979, the plane, then serving as Air Canada Flight 680 (Boston, Massachusetts to Yarmouth, Nova Scotia), had suffered an explosive decompression in the rear bulkhead that required rebuilding the tail section and replacing or splicing most of the wiring and hydraulic lines in the back of the plane; Cameron noted in an interview for the "Fire Flight" episode of "Mayday" that the Air Canada maintenance crew "did a heck of a job getting everything put back together" after the decompression incident. on    the plane then serving as   Flight  (  to   ) had suffered an explosive decompression in the rear bulkhead that required rebuilding the tail section and replacing or splicing most of the wiring and hydraulic lines in the back of the plane;  noted in an interview for the "Fire Flight" episode of "Mayday" that the   maintenance crew "did a heck of a job getting everything put back together" after the decompression incident.
175 boston Investigators were unable to find signs of arcing in any of the wire splices from the repairs done four years earlier, though much of the wiring in the rear of the plane was severely damaged or destroyed by the fire itself. Investigators were unable to find signs of arcing in any of the wire splices from the repairs done   , though much of the wiring in the rear of the plane was severely damaged or destroyed by the fire itself.
176 boston But the media did not ignore him. But the media did not ignore him.
177 boston ESPN's Buster Olney would write about his outbursts as a Cleveland Indian: :It was a taken in baseball circles that Albert Belle was nuts... 's   would write about his outbursts as a  Indian: :It was a taken in baseball circles that   was nuts...
178 boston The Indians billed him $10,000 a year for the damage he caused in clubhouses on the road and at home, and tolerated his behavior only because he was an awesome slugger... The  billed him $10,000  yer for the dmge he cused in clubhouses on the rod nd t home, nd tolerted his behvior only becuse he ws n wesome slugger...
179 boston He slurped coffee constantly and seemed to be on a perpetual caffeinated frenzy. He slurped coffee constantly and seemed to be on a perpetual caffeinated frenzy.
180 boston Few escaped his wrath: on some days he would destroy the postgame buffet...launching plates into the shower... after one poor at-bat against Boston, he retreated to the visitors' clubhouse and took a bat to teammate Kenny Lofton's boombox. Few escaped his wrath: on some  he would destroy the postgame buffet...launching plates into the shower... after  poor at-bat against , he retreated to the visitors' clubhouse and took a bat to teammate  's boombox.
181 boston Belle preferred to have the clubhouse cold, below 60 degrees, and when one chilly teammate turned up the heat, Belle walked over, turned down the thermostat and smashed it with his bat. preferred to have the clubhouse cold, below  degrees, and when  chilly teammate turned up the heat,  walked over, turned down the thermostat and smashed it with his bat.
182 boston His nickname, thereafter, was "Mr. His nickname, thereafter, was "Mr.
183 boston Freeze." Freeze."
184 boston Several ships were torpedoed within sight of East Coast cities such as New York and Boston; indeed, some civilians sat on beaches and watched battles between U.S. and German ships. Several ships were torpedoed within sight of   cities such as   and ; indeed, some civilians sat on beaches and watched battles between  and  ships.
185 boston The only documented World War II sinking of a U-boat close to New England shores occurred on May 5, 1945, when the U-853 torpedoed and sank the collier "Black Point" off Newport, Rhode Island. The only documented    sinking of a U-boat close to   shores occurred on   194 when the U-83 torpedoed and sank the collier "Black Point" off port  .
186 boston When the "Black Point" was hit, the U.S. Navy immediately chased down the sub and began dropping depth charges. When the " " was hit, the   immediately chased down the sub and began dropping depth charges.
187 boston The next day, when an oil slick and floating debris appeared, they confirmed that the U-853 and its entire crew had been destroyed. , when an oil slick and floating debris appeared, they confirmed that the  and its entire crew had been destroyed.
188 boston In recent years, the U-853 has become a popular dive site. In  , the  has become a popular dive site.
189 boston Its intact hull, with open hatches, is located in  of water off Block Island, Rhode Island. Its intact hull, with open hatches, is located in  of water off  ,  .
190 boston A wreck discovered in 1991 off the New Jersey coast was concluded in 1997 to be that of U-869. A wreck discovered in  off the   coast was concluded in  to be that of U-869.
191 boston Previously, U-869 had been thought to have been sunk off Rabat, Morocco. , U-869 had been thought to have been sunk off , .
192 boston The 82nd Airborne's drop, mission "Boston", began at 01:51. The  Airborne's drop, mission "", began at 01:51.
193 boston It was also a lift of 10 serials organized in three waves, totaling 6,420 paratroopers carried by 369 C-47s. It was also a lift of  serials organized in  waves, totaling  paratroopers carried by  C-47s.
194 boston The C-47s carrying the 505th did not experience the difficulties that had plagued the 101st's drops. The C-47s carrying the 505th did not experience the difficulties that had plagued the 101st's drops.
195 boston Pathfinders on DZ O turned on their Eureka beacons as the first 82nd serial crossed the initial point and lighted holophane markers on all three battalion assembly areas. Pathfinders on DZ O turned on their  beacons as the   serial crossed the initial point and lighted holophane markers on all  battalion assembly areas.
196 boston As a result the 505th enjoyed the most accurate of the D-Day drops, half the regiment dropping on or within a mile of its DZ, and 75 per cent within . As a result the 505th enjoyed the most accurate of the D-Day drops, half the regiment dropping on or within a mile of its DZ, and  per cent within .
197 boston Americana has tropical climate, with hot summers and chilly winters. Americana has tropical climate, with hot summers and chilly winters.
198 boston The median high temperature in summer is 84°F (29°C) and the median low is 64°F (18°C), comparable to Boston. The median high temperature in  is F (C) and the median low is F (C), comparable to .
199 boston In winter, the median high temperature is 72°F (22°C) and the median low temperature is 50°F (10°C), comparable to Orlando, Florida. In , the median high temperature is F (C) and the median low temperature is F (C), comparable to , .
200 boston On January 6, 1853, Benjamin "Bennie" Pierce, (1841&ndash;53) the 11-year-old son of President-elect Franklin Pierce and his wife Jane Pierce, was killed in a train accident in town. On     "Bennie"  (&ndash;) the  son of President-elect   and his wife   was killed in a train accident in town.
201 boston The Boston & Maine noon express, traveling from Boston to Lawrence, was moving at 40 miles  per hour when an axle broke. noon express, traveling from  to , was moving at  miles  per  when an axle broke.
202 boston The only coach, in which Franklin Pierce was also riding, went down an embankment and broke in two. The only coach, in which   was also riding, went down an embankment and broke in .
203 boston (The baggage car and locomotive had remained on the track.) (The baggage car and locomotive had remained on the track.)
204 boston Pierce's son was the only one killed, but it was initially reported that Pierce was also a fatality. 's son was the only  killed, but it was initially reported that  was also a fatality.
205 boston He was only badly bruised. He was only badly bruised.
206 boston The Pierces had previously lost two other children. The Pierces had  lost  other children.
207 boston The death is said to have cast a pall on the couple, especially Jane, who entertained hardly at all in the White House and spent much of her time writing letters to her dead children. The death is said to have cast a pall on the couple, especially , who entertained hardly at all in the White House and spent much of her time writing letters to her dead children.
208 boston She died, still grief-stricken, in 1863. She died, still grief-stricken, in .
209 boston Dubus was seriously injured in a car accident on the night of July 23, 1986. was seriously injured in a car accident on the night of   .
210 boston He was driving from Boston to his home in Haverhill, Massachusetts, and he stopped to assist two disabled motorists—brother and sister Luis and Luz Santiago. He was driving from  to his home in , , and he stopped to assist  disabled motorists—brother and sister  and  .
211 boston As Dubus assisted the injured Luz to the side of the highway, an oncoming car swerved and hit them. As  assisted the injured  to the side of the highway, an oncoming car swerved and hit them.
212 boston Luis was killed instantly; Luz survived because Dubus had pushed her out of the way. was killed instantly;  survived because  had pushed her out of the way.
213 boston Dubus was critically injured and both his legs were crushed. was critically injured and both his legs were crushed.
214 boston After a series of unsuccessful operations, his right leg was amputated above the knee, and he eventually lost the use of his left leg. After a series of unsuccessful operations, his right leg was amputated above the knee, and he eventually lost the use of his left leg.
215 boston Dubus spent three years undergoing a series of painful operations and extensive physical therapy. spent   undergoing a series of painful operations and extensive physical therapy.
216 boston Despite his efforts to walk with a prosthesis, chronic infections confined him to a wheelchair for the remainder of his life, and he battled clinical depression as a result of his condition. Despite his efforts to walk with a prosthesis, chronic infections confined him to a wheelchair for the remainder of his life, and he battled clinical depression as a result of his condition.
217 boston Over the course of these struggles Dubus's third wife left him, taking with her their two young daughters. Over the course of these struggles 's  wife left him, taking with her their  young daughters.
218 boston They tried to stand down during the storm just outside the Isles of Shoals, but the "James" lost all three anchors, as no canvas or rope would hold, but on Aug 13, 1635, torn to pieces, and not one death, all one hundred-plus passengers aboard the "James" managed to make it to Boston Harbor two days later. They tried to stand down during the storm just outside the    but the "James" lost all  anchors as no canvas or rope would hold but on    torn to pieces and not  death all  hundred-plus passengers aboard the "James" managed to make it to     .
219 boston The  that fell at Boston's Logan International Airport was the third-biggest snowstorm in Boston history (biggest in the month of April) behind the North American blizzard of 2003 () and the Northeastern United States blizzard of 1978  and made April 1997 the Boston's snowiest April on record (the previous record being a mere ). The  that fell at 's    was  third-biggest snowstorm in  history (biggest in    ) behind    blizzard   () and  Norastern   blizzard    and made    's snowiest  on record ( previous record being a mere ).
220 boston It also set a record for Boston's greatest April 24-hour snowfall. It also set a record for 's greatest   snowfall.
221 boston Parts of New England received 50 to 70 mph wind gusts at the height of the storm. Parts of   received  to  mph wind gusts at the height of the storm.
222 boston Providence recorded  of snow which was the fourth greatest on record at the time. Providence recorded  of snow which was the  greatest on record at the time.
223 boston Other parts of New England reported more than   and up to three feet with Worcester receiving , the city's largest snowfall in history. Other parts of   reported more than   and up to  feet with  receiving , the city's largest snowfall in history.
224 boston During the peak of the storm from about 11 p.m. March 31 to 3 a.m. During the peak of the storm from about 11 p.m.   to 3 a.m.
225 boston April 1, snow fell in Boston at the rate of  per hour. , snow fell in  at the rate of  per .
226 boston Numerous lightning strikes and thunderclaps accompanied the extremely heavy snow, which accumulated one foot () in just that four hour period. Numerous lightning strikes and thunderclaps accompanied the extremely heavy snow, which accumulated  foot () in just that   period.
227 boston Moderate to heavy snow continued through midmorning before tapering off. Moderate to heavy snow continued through midmorning before tapering off.
228 boston Prior to the storm, Boston had received just  of snow for the season. Prior to the storm,  had received just  of snow for the season.
229 boston On March 30, Boston was sunny with a high temperature of 63°F and a cold front passed the next day dropping the temperature into the 40s. On  ,  was sunny with a high temperature of F and a cold front passed    dropping  temperature into  40s.
230 boston Just prior to dawn on Monday March 31, precipitation began to fall in the form of light rain. Just prior to dawn on   , precipitation began to fall in the form of light rain.
231 boston In Boston the rain began to mix with wet snow mid-morning and eventually turned to wet snow and became heavier just after 7 p.m. From 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. the snow fell at a rate of at least  per hour. In  the rain began to mix with wet snow mid-morning and eventually turned to wet snow and became heavier just after 7 p.m. From 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. the snow fell at a rate of at least  per .
232 boston A state of emergency was declared by Massachusetts Gov. William F. Weld. A state of emergency was declared by  Gov.   .
233 boston The snow came down too fast for road crews to keep up with and roads became impassable and thousands of cars were stranded. The snow came down too fast for road crews to keep up with and roads became impassable and thousands of cars were stranded.
234 boston Commuter trolleys in Boston were closed for the first time in nearly twenty years, public transportation was crippled, about 1,000 motorists spent the night stranded in their cars and 4,000 stayed in shelters. Commuter trolleys in  were closed for the  time in   , public transportation was crippled, about  motorists spent the night stranded in their cars and  stayed in shelters.
235 boston Some of the narrow side streets of Boston were completely buried and portions of Interstate 95 and Route 128 were shut down because of the snow. Some of the narrow side streets of  were completely buried and portions of Interstate  and Route  were shut down because of the snow.
236 boston The main roads and highways were cleared within a couple of days but the secondary roads remained a mess making travel difficult. The min rods nd highwys were clered within    dys but the secondry rods remined  mess mking trvel difficult.
237 boston Two days after the storm, subways and commuter rails were still sluggish because of fallen trees and signal problems. after the storm, subways and commuter rails were still sluggish because of fallen trees and signal problems.
238 boston Fiedler had many different hobbies. had many different hobbies.
239 boston He was fascinated by the work of firefighters and would travel in his own vehicle to large fires in and around Boston at any time of the day or night to watch the firefighters at work. He was fascinated by  work of firefighters and would travel in his own vehicle to large fires in and around  at any time of   or night to watch  firefighters at work.
240 boston He was even made an "Honorary Captain" in the Boston Fire Department. He was even made an "Honorary Captain" in the   .
241 boston A number of other fire departments gave him honorary fire helmets and/or badges. A number of other fire departments gave him honorary fire helmets and/or badges.
242 boston The official biography of Fiedler reports that the conductor once helped in the rescue efforts at the tragic Cocoanut Grove fire in Boston in 1942. The official biography of  reports that the conductor  helped in the rescue efforts at the tragic Cocoanut Grove fire in  in .
243 boston An avid sailor, he volunteered during the early days of World War II for the Temporary Reserve of the U.S. Coast Guard and was later a member of the Coast Guard Auxiliary. An avid sailor, he volunteered during    of    for  Temporary Reserve of     and was later a member of    .
244 boston Ashland's climate is variable. 's climate is variable.
245 boston Winters are typically cold, with frequent Nor'easters and occasional blizzards. are typically cold, with frequent Nor'easters and occasional blizzards.
246 boston Snowfall ranges widely from season to season, although the average is about . Snowfall ranges widely from season to season, although the average is about .
247 boston In the recent past, there has been as little as  of snow (in the 1988–89 winter season) to 148 inches (in 1995–96). In the recent , there has been as little as  of snow (in the –  season) to  inches (in –).
248 boston The amount decreases dramatically eastward towards Boston because of the influence of the Atlantic Ocean. The amount decreases dramatically eastward towards  because of the influence of the  .
249 boston Snowfall amounts can also decrease rapidly south of Ashland. Snowfall amounts can also decrease rapidly south of .
250 boston Low temperatures below zero are not uncommon in winter, and the lowest recent temperatures have been 17 below in January 1994 and 14 below in January 2011. Low temperatures below  are not uncommon in , and the lowest recent temperatures have been  below in   and  below in  .
251 boston Average January high temperatures are in the low 30s. Average  high temperatures are in the low 30s.
252 boston Average January low temperatures are in the upper teens. Average  low temperatures are in the upper teens.
253 boston Snow depth can reach two feet or more during the winter season. Snow depth can reach  feet or more during the  season.
254 boston The winter of 2010-11 was notable for snow depths of nearly 40 inches during January and February. was notable for snow depths  nearly  inches during  and .
255 boston Nearly 60 inches of snowfall was recorded in Ashland in January 2011 alone. Nearly  inches of snowfall was recorded in  in   alone.
256 boston Spring temperatures can be mitigated by penetrating cold fronts originating from the Canadian Maritimes, known as "Backdoor Cold Fronts". temperatures can be mitigated by penetrating cold fronts originating from the  , known as "Backdoor Cold Fronts".
257 boston Typically, high temperatures consistently above 70 degrees do not set in until late May. Typically, high temperatures consistently above  degrees do not set in until  .
258 boston The last frost is usually in mid-May. The last frost is usually in .
259 boston Summers are generally comfortable, with periods of high humidity. Summers are generally comfortable, with periods of high humidity.
260 boston Prolonged heat waves of three or more days with highs of 90 or above are uncommon but can occur. Prolonged heat waves of  or more  with highs of  or above are uncommon but can occur.
261 boston In July 2011 an unusually high temperature of 101 was reached. In   an unusually high temperature of  was reached.
262 boston Average July high temperatures are in the low 80s and average lows are around 60. Severe summer weather is not as common as areas to the west in Central Massachusetts. Average  high temperatures are in the low  and average lows are around .Severe  weather is not as common as areas to the west in  .
263 boston However, on July 10, 1989, high winds occurred causing widespread tree damage through most of Ashland with several homes damaged. However on    high winds occurred causing widespread tree damage through most of  with several homes damaged.
264 boston This storm was part of a complex of severe storms that spawned several EF0 and EF1 tornadoes in towns in some neighboring counties. This storm was part of a complex of severe storms that spawned several EF0 and EF1 tornadoes in towns in some neighboring counties.
265 boston Fall is pleasant with the first frost usually around October 1, and the peak of the fall foliage season averages around October 12. Ashland can expect a "white" Christmas slightly over 50 percent of the time. is pleasant with the  frost usually around  , and the peak of the  foliage season averages around  2. can expect a "white"  slightly over 50 percent of the time.
266 boston Adult ALBs can be seen from late spring to fall, depending on the climate. Adult ALBs can be seen from   to fall, depending on the climate.
267 boston The ALB was first discovered in the United States in 1996 in the Greenpoint section of Brooklyn. The ALB was  discovered in the   in  in the  section of .
268 boston Shortly after, another infestation was detected in Amityville on Long Island. Shortly after, another infestation was detected in  on  .
269 boston Since then infestations have been found in the Islip area of Long Island in Queens and in Manhattan. Since then infestations have been found in the  area of   in  and in .
270 boston In fact, several infested trees were removed around Central Park. In fact, several infested trees were removed around Central Park.
271 boston The ALB was discovered in Chicago in 1998. The ALB was discovered in  in .
272 boston An ALB infestation was detected in Hudson County, New Jersey in 2002 and in the Central New Jersey Middlesex and Union Counties in 2004. An ALB infestation was detected in  ,   in  and in the     and Union Counties in .
273 boston In 2008 a sizeable infestation resulting in the removal of more than 28,000 trees was discovered in Worcester, Massachusetts. In  a sizeable infestation resulting in the removal of more than  trees was discovered in , .
274 boston Ongoing inspection of host trees within the  quarantine area of Worcester county has revealed that, since 2008, over 19,000 trees were infested; there is some evidence that the infestation may date back as far as 1997. Ongoing inspection of host trees within the  quarantine area of   has revealed that, since , over  trees were infested; there is some evidence that the infestation may date back as far as .
275 boston On July 5, 2010, six infested trees were found on the grounds of the Faulkner Hospital in the Jamaica Plain neighborhood of Boston, Massachusetts, which is across the street from the Arnold Arboretum, where an infestation is poised to devastate the oldest arboretum in America. On     infested trees were found on the grounds of the   in the   neighborhood of   which is across the street from the   where an infestation is poised to devastate the oldest arboretum in .
276 boston As of 2011, the ALB is considered a threat to the forestry industry in Ohio and steps are being taken to eradicate it. As of , the ALB is considered a threat to the forestry industry in  and steps are being taken to eradicate it.
277 boston The aurora is thought to have been produced by one of the most intense coronal mass ejections in history, very near the maximum intensity that the Sun is thought to be capable of producing. The aurora is thought to have been produced by  of the most intense coronal mass ejections in history, very near the maximum intensity that the  is thought to be capable of producing.
278 boston It is also notable for the fact that it is the first time where the phenomena of auroral activity and electricity were unambiguously linked. It is also notable for the fact that it is the  time where the phenomena of auroral activity and electricity were unambiguously linked.
279 boston This insight was made possible not only due to scientific magnetometer measurements of the era, but also as a result of a significant portion of the  of telegraph lines then in service being significantly disrupted for many hours throughout the storm. This insight was made possible not only due to scientific magnetometer measurements of the era, but also as a result of a significant portion of the  of telegraph lines then in service being significantly disrupted for many  throughout the storm.
280 boston Some telegraph lines, however, seem to have been of the appropriate length and orientation to produce a sufficient geomagnetically induced current from the electromagnetic field to allow for continued communication with the telegraph operator power supplies switched off. Some telegraph lines, however, seem to have been of the appropriate length and orientation to produce a sufficient geomagnetically induced  from the electromagnetic field to allow for continued communication with the telegraph operator power supplies switched off.
281 boston The following conversation occurred between two operators of the American Telegraph Line between Boston and Portland, Maine, on the night of 2 September 1859 and reported in the "Boston Traveler": The following conversation occurred between  operators of the American Telegraph Line between  and , , on the night of 2   and reported in the " Traveler":
282 boston The auroras that resulted from the "great geomagnetic storm" on both 28 August and 2 September 1859 are thought the most spectacular in recent recorded history. The auroras that resulted from the "great geomagnetic storm" on both   and    are thought the most spectacular in recent recorded history.
283 boston Balfour Stewart, in a paper to the Royal Society on 21 November 1861, described both auroral events as documented by a self-recording magnetograph at the Kew Observatory and established the connection between the 2 September 1859 auroral storm and the Carrington-Hodgson flare event when he observed that "it is not impossible to suppose that in this case our luminary was taken "in the act"." , in a paper to the   on   , described both auroral events as documented by a self-recording magnetograph at the   and established the connection between the    auroral storm and the  flare event when he observed that "it is not impossible to suppose that in this case our luminary was taken "in the act"."
284 boston The second auroral event, which occurred on 2 September 1859 as a result of the exceptionally intense Carrington-Hodgson white light solar flare on 1 September 1859, produced auroras so widespread and extraordinarily brilliant that they were seen and reported in published scientific measurements, ship logs, and newspapers throughout the United States, Europe, Japan, and Australia. The  auroral event, which occurred on    as a result of the exceptionally intense  white light solar flare on   , produced auroras so widespread and extraordinarily brilliant that they were seen and reported in published scientific measurements, ship logs, and newspapers throughout the  , , , and .
285 boston It was reported by the "New York Times" that in Boston on Friday 2 September 1859 the aurora was "so brilliant that at about one o'clock ordinary print could be read by the light". It was reported by the "  " that in  on     the aurora was "so brilliant that at about one o'clock ordinary print could be read by the light".
286 boston One o'clock Boston time on Friday 2 September, would have been 6:00 GMT and the self-recording magnetograph at the Kew Observatory was recording the geomagnetic storm, which was then one hour old, at its full intensity. One o'clock  time on   , would have been 6:00 GMT and the self-recording magnetograph at the   was recording the geomagnetic storm, which was then   , at its full intensity.
287 boston Between 1859 and 1862, Elias Loomis published a series of nine papers on the Great Auroral Exhibition of 1859 in the "American Journal of Science" where he collected world wide reports of the auroral event. Between  and ,   published a series of  papers on the Great Auroral Exhibition of  in the "American Journal of Science" where he collected world wide reports of the auroral event.
288 boston The works on Breed's Hill did not go unnoticed by the British. The works on Breed's  did not go unnoticed by the .
289 boston General Clinton, out on reconnaissance that night, was aware of them, and tried to convince Gage and Howe that they needed to prepare to attack the position at daylight. General , out on reconnaissance that night, was aware of them, and tried to convince  and  that they needed to prepare to attack the position at daylight.
290 boston British sentries were also aware of the activity, but most apparently did not think it cause for alarm. sentries were also aware of the activity, but most apparently did not think it cause for alarm.
291 boston Then, in the early predawn, around 4:00 am, a sentry on board  spotted the new fortification, and notified her captain. Then, in the early predawn, around 4:00 am, a sentry on board  spotted the new fortification, and notified her captain.
292 boston "Lively" opened fire, temporarily halting the colonists' work. "Lively" opened fire, temporarily halting the colonists' work.
293 boston Aboard his flagship , Admiral Samuel Graves awoke, irritated by the gunfire that he had not ordered. Aboard his flagship , Admiral   awoke, irritated by the gunfire that he had not ordered.
294 boston He stopped it, only to have General Gage countermand his decision when he became fully aware of the situation in the morning. He stopped it, only to have General  countermand his decision when he became fully aware of the situation in the morning.
295 boston He ordered all 128 guns in the harbor, as well as batteries atop Copp's Hill in Boston, to fire on the colonial position, which had relatively little effect. He ordered all  guns in the harbor, as well as batteries atop 's  in , to fire on the colonial position, which had relatively little effect.
296 boston The rising sun also alerted Prescott to a significant problem with the location of the redoubt – it could easily be flanked on either side. The rising sun also alerted  to a significant problem with the location of the redoubt – it could easily be flanked on either side.
297 boston He promptly ordered his men to begin constructing a breastwork running down the hill to the east, deciding he did not have the manpower to also build additional defenses to the west of the redoubt. He promptly ordered his men to begin constructing a breastwork running down the hill to the east, deciding he did not have the manpower to also build additional defenses to the west of the redoubt.
298 boston Some of Stark's men were engaged in driving the livestock further up the coast. Some of Stark's men were engaged in driving the livestock further up the coast.
299 boston Others noticed that "Diana" was in trouble, and called for reinforcements. Others noticed that "" was in trouble, and called for reinforcements.
300 boston General Putnam and as many as 1000 troops (including Joseph Warren) came up on the shore near "Diana", a place at the mouth of Chelsea Creek, in the modern Chelsea neighborhood by the McArdle bridge to East Boston. General  and as many as  troops (including  ) came up on the shore near "Diana", a place at the mouth of  , in the modern  neighborhood by the  bridge to  .
301 boston Putnam waded out into the harbor up to his waist and offered quarter to the sailors of "Diana" if they would surrender, but its cannon continued to fire, and attempts to tow her into deeper water continued. waded out into the harbor up to his waist and offered quarter to the sailors of "Diana" if they would surrender, but its cannon continued to fire, and attempts to tow her into deeper water continued.
302 boston Colonial forces continued firing on the ship, supported by two field pieces positioned on the shore. Colonial forces continued firing on the ship, supported by  field pieces positioned on the shore.
303 boston "Britannia" and field pieces the British had landed on Noddle's Island also joined the cannonade. "Britannia" and field pieces the  had landed on 's  also joined the cannonade.
304 boston At about 10 pm, the British rowers were forced to abandon the rescue of "Diana" due to the heavy fire. At about 10 pm, the  rowers were forced to abandon the rescue of "Diana" due to the heavy fire.
305 boston "Diana" drifted and ran aground again on the Mystic River side of the Chelsea coast, tipping onto one side. "Diana" drifted and ran aground again on the   side of the  coast, tipping onto  side.
306 boston Lieutenant Graves abandoned "Diana" and transferred his men to "Britannia", which was successfully towed to deeper water. Lieutenant Graves abandoned "Diana" and transferred his men to "Britannia", which was successfully towed to deeper water.
307 boston A captains' conference on the "Olympia" revealed little damage and no men killed. A captains' conference on the "" revealed little damage and no men killed.
308 boston It was discovered that the original ammunition message had been garbled - instead of only 15 rounds of ammunition per gun remaining, the message had meant to say only 15 rounds of ammunition per gun had been expended. It was discovered that the original ammunition message had been garbled - instead of only  rounds of ammunition per gun remaining, the message had meant to say only  rounds of ammunition per gun had been expended.
309 boston During the conference reports arrived that sounds of exploding ammunition had been heard and fires sighted on the "Cristina" and "Castilla". During the conference reports arrived that sounds of exploding ammunition had been heard and fires sighted on the "Cristina" and "Castilla".
310 boston At 10:40 AM action was resumed but the Spanish offered little resistance and Montojo issued orders for the remaining ships to be scuttled and the breechblocks of their guns taken ashore. At 10:40 AM action was resumed but the  offered little resistance and  issued orders for the remaining ships to be scuttled and the breechblocks of their guns taken ashore.
311 boston The "Olympia", "Baltimore" and "Boston" then fired on the Sangley Point battery putting it out of action and followed up by sinking the "Ulloa". The "Olympia", "Baltimore" and "" then fired on the   battery putting it out of action and followed up by sinking the "Ulloa".
312 boston The "Concord" fired on the transport "Mindanao", whose crew immediately abandoned ship. The "Concord" fired on the transport "", whose crew immediately abandoned ship.
313 boston The "Petrel" fired on the government offices next to the arsenal and a white flag was raised over the building after which all firing ceased. The "Petrel" fired on the government offices next to the arsenal and a white flag was raised over the building after which all firing ceased.
314 boston The Spanish colors were struck at 12:40 PM. The  colors were struck at 12:40 PM.
315 boston On 5 May, "U-853" was lying in wait off the point when she sighted and fired on the SS "Black Point", a collier with armed guards aboard underway for Boston, Massachusetts. On  , "U-83" was lying in wait off the point when she sighted and fired on the  " ", a collier with armed guards aboard underway for , .
316 boston Her torpedoes struck, and within fifteen minutes, "Black Point" had capsized in  of water, the last American-flagged merchant ship sunk in the war. Her torpedoes struck, and within  , "Black Point" had capsized in  of water, the last  merchant ship sunk in the war.
317 boston Twelve men died, including one of the guards, and thirty-four others were rescued by nearby vessels. men died, including  of the guards, and  others were rescued by nearby vessels.
318 boston One of the rescuing ships, the SS "Kamen", sent a report of the torpedoing that was picked up by Eastern Sea Frontier HQ, in New York, and 1st Naval District HQ, in Boston, who immediately started to assemble a search and destroy mission. of the rescuing ships, the SS "Kamen", sent a report of the torpedoing that was picked up by    HQ, in  , and  Naval District HQ, in , who immediately started to assemble a search and destroy mission.
319 boston The attacks continued through the night, and at 0530 oil, planking, life rafts, a chart tabletop, clothing, and an officer's cap were detected. The attacks continued through the night, and at  oil, planking, life rafts, a chart tabletop, clothing, and an officer's cap were detected.
320 boston Nevertheless destruction of "U-853" was not accepted by HQ in Boston, and the hunt continued. Nevertheless destruction of "U-853" was not accepted by HQ in , and the hunt continued.
321 boston After daybreak, two K class blimps, "K-16" and "K-58", from Lakehurst, New Jersey, joined the attack, locating oil slicks and marking suspected locations with smoke and dye markers. After daybreak,  K class blimps, "K-16" and "K-58", from ,  , joined the attack, locating oil slicks and marking suspected locations with smoke and dye markers.
322 boston "K-16" also attacked with  rocket bombs. "K-16" also attacked with  rocket bombs.
323 boston Finally, at 1207, Eastern Sea Frontier HQ accepted the destruction of the U-boat, and the hunt was called off. Finally, at ,    HQ accepted the destruction of the U-boat, and the hunt was called off.
324 boston The men Arnold chose for his expedition were volunteers drawn from New England companies serving in the Siege of Boston. The men  chose for his expedition were volunteers drawn from   companies serving in the Siege of .
325 boston They were formed into two battalions for the expedition; a third battalion was composed of riflemen from Pennsylvania and Virginia under Lieutenant Colonel Daniel Morgan's command. They were formed into  battalions for the expedition; a  battalion was composed of riflemen from  and  under Lieutenant Colonel  's command.
326 boston The trek through the wilderness of Maine was long and difficult. The trek through the wilderness of  was long and difficult.
327 boston The conditions were wet and cold, and the journey took much longer than either Arnold or Washington had expected. The conditions were wet and cold, and the journey took much longer than either  or  had expected.
328 boston Bad weather and wrecked boats spoiled much of the expedition's food stores, and about 500 men of the original 1,100 died en route or turned back. Bad weather and wrecked boats spoiled much of the expedition's food stores, and about  men of the original  died en route or turned back.
329 boston Those who turned back, including one of the New England battalions, took many of the remaining provisions with them. Those who turned back, including  of the   battalions, took many of the remaining provisions with them.
330 boston The men who continued on were starving by the time they reached the first French settlements in early November. The men who continued on were starving by the time they reached the   settlements in  .
331 boston On November 9, the 600 survivors of Arnold's march from Boston to Quebec arrived at Point Levis, on the south shore of the Saint Lawrence opposite Quebec City. On  , the  survivors of 's  from  to  arrived at  , on the south shore of the Saint  opposite  .
332 boston Despite the condition of his troops, Arnold immediately began to gather boats to make a crossing. Despite the condition of his troops,  immediately began to gather boats to make a crossing.
333 boston He was prepared to do so on the night of November 10, but a storm delayed him for three days. He was prepared to do so on the night of  , but a storm delayed him for  .
334 boston Once on the other side of the Saint Lawrence, Arnold moved his troops onto the Plains of Abraham, about 1.5 miles (2 km) from the city walls. on the other side of the Saint ,  moved his troops onto the Plains of , about  miles ( km) from the city walls.
335 boston Percy took the land route across Boston Neck and over the Great Bridge, which some enterprising colonists had stripped of its planking to delay their way. took the land route across   and over the  , which some enterprising colonists had stripped of its planking to delay their way.
336 boston His men then came upon an absent-minded tutor at Harvard College and asked him which road would take them to Lexington. His men then came upon an absent-minded tutor at   and asked him which road would take them to .
337 boston The Harvard man, apparently oblivious to the reality of what was happening around him, showed him the proper road without thinking. The Harvard man, apparently oblivious to the reality of what was happening around him, showed him the proper road without thinking.
338 boston (He was later compelled to leave the country for inadvertently supporting the enemy.) (He was later compelled to leave the country for inadvertently supporting the enemy.)
339 boston Percy's troops arrived in Lexington at about 2:00 pm. 's troops arrived in  at about 2:00 pm.
340 boston They could hear gunfire in the distance as they set up their cannon and lines of regulars on high ground with commanding views of the town. They could hear gunfire in the distance as they set up their cannon and lines of regulars on high ground with commanding views of the town.
341 boston Colonel Smith's men approached like a fleeing mob with the full complement of colonial militia in close formation pursuing them. Colonel 's men approached like a fleeing mob with the full complement of colonial militia in close formation pursuing them.
342 boston Percy ordered his artillery to open fire at extreme range, dispersing the colonial militiamen. ordered his artillery to open fire at extreme range, dispersing the colonial militiamen.
343 boston Smith's men collapsed with exhaustion once they reached the safety of Percy's lines. 's men collapsed with exhaustion  they reached the safety of 's lines.
344 boston The British began to awaken their troops at 9 pm on the night of April 18 and assembled them on the water's edge on the western end of Boston Common by 10 pm. The  began to awaken their troops at 9 pm on the night of   and assembled them on the water's edge on the western end of  Common by 10 pm.
345 boston The British march to and from Concord was a disorganized experience from start to finish. The   to and from  was a disorganized experience from start to finish.
346 boston Colonel Smith was late in arriving, and there was no organized boat-loading operation, resulting in confusion at the staging area. Colonel  was late in arriving, and there was no organized boat-loading operation, resulting in confusion at the staging area.
347 boston The boats used were naval barges that were packed so tightly that there was no room to sit down. The boats used were naval barges that were packed so tightly that there was no room to sit down.
348 boston When they disembarked at Phipps Farm in Cambridge, it was into waist-deep water at midnight. When they disembarked at   in , it was into waist-deep water at midnight.
349 boston After a lengthy halt to unload their gear, the regulars began their  march to Concord at about 2 am. After a lengthy halt to unload their gear, the regulars began their   to  at about 2 am.
350 boston During the wait they were provided with extra ammunition, cold salt pork, and hard sea biscuits. During the wait they were provided with extra ammunition, cold salt pork, and hard sea biscuits.
351 boston They did not carry knapsacks, since they would not be encamped. They did not carry knapsacks, since they would not be encamped.
352 boston They carried their haversacks (food bags), canteens, muskets, and accoutrements, and marched off in wet, muddy shoes and soggy uniforms. They carried their haversacks (food bags), canteens, muskets, and accoutrements, and marched off in wet, muddy shoes and soggy uniforms.
353 boston As they marched through Menotomy, sounds of the colonial alarms throughout the countryside caused the few officers who were aware of their mission to realize they had lost the element of surprise. As they marched through Menotomy, sounds of the colonial alarms throughout the countryside caused the few officers who were aware of their mission to realize they had lost the element of surprise.
354 boston One of the regulars recorded in his journal, of the regulars recorded in his journal,
355 boston The ride of Revere, Dawes, and Prescott triggered a flexible system of "alarm and muster" that had been carefully developed months before, in reaction to the colonists' impotent response to the Powder Alarm. The ride of , , and  triggered a flexible system of "alarm and muster" that had been carefully developed  before, in reaction to the colonists' impotent response to the Powder Alarm.
356 boston This system was an improved version of an old network of widespread notification and fast deployment of local militia forces in times of emergency. This system was an improved version of an old network of widespread notification and fast deployment of local militia forces in times of emergency.
357 boston The colonists had periodically used this system all the way back to the early years of Indian wars in the colony, before it fell into disuse in the French and Indian War. The colonists had periodically used this system all  way back to    of  wars in  colony, before it fell into disuse in   and  .
358 boston In addition to other express riders delivering messages, bells, drums, alarm guns, bonfires and a trumpet were used for rapid communication from town to town, notifying the rebels in dozens of eastern Massachusetts villages that they should muster their militias because the regulars in numbers greater than 500 were leaving Boston, with possible hostile intentions. In addition to other express riders delivering messages, bells, drums, alarm guns, bonfires and a trumpet were used for rapid communication from town to town, notifying the rebels in dozens of eastern  villages that they should muster their militias because the regulars in numbers greater than  were leaving , with possible hostile intentions.
359 boston This system was so effective that people in towns  from Boston were aware of the army's movements while they were still unloading boats in Cambridge. This system was so effective that people in towns  from  were aware of the army's movements while they were still unloading boats in .
360 boston These early warnings played a crucial role in assembling a sufficient number of colonial militia to inflict heavy damage on the British regulars later in the day. These early warnings played a crucial role in assembling a sufficient number of colonial militia to inflict heavy damage on   regulars later in  .
361 boston Adams and Hancock were eventually moved to safety, first to what is now Burlington and later to Billerica. and  were eventually moved to safety,  to what is   and later to .
362 boston It was the deadliest fire in the United States since 1942 when 491 people were killed in the Cocoanut Grove fire in Boston. It was the deadliest fire in the   since  when  people were killed in the Cocoanut Grove fire in .
363 boston On September 15, 2004, a major leak in the Interstate 93 north tunnel forced the closure of the tunnel while repairs were conducted. On    a major leak in the Interstate  north tunnel forced the closure of the tunnel while repairs were conducted.
364 boston This also forced the Turnpike Authority to release information regarding its non-disclosure of prior leaks. This also forced the   to release information regarding its non-disclosure of prior leaks.
365 boston A follow-up reported on "extensive" leaks that were more severe than state authorities had previously acknowledged. A follow-up reported on "extensive" leaks that were more severe than state authorities had  acknowledged.
366 boston The report went on to state that the $14.6 billion tunnel system was riddled with more than 400 leaks. The report went on to state that the $14.6 billion tunnel system was riddled with more than  leaks.
367 boston A "Boston Globe" report, however, countered that by stating there were nearly 700 leaks in a single  section of tunnel beneath South Station. A " " report, however, countered that by stating there were nearly  leaks in a single  section of tunnel beneath South Station.
368 boston Turnpike officials also stated that the number of leaks being investigated was down from 1,000 to 500. Turnpike officials also stated that the number of leaks being investigated was down from   .
369 boston The "Big Dig ceiling collapse" occurred on July 10, 2006, when a concrete ceiling panel weighing 3 tons (2722 kg) and measuring 20 by 40 ft (6.1 by 12.2 m) fell in Boston's Fort Point Channel Tunnel. The "Big Dig ceiling collapse" occurred on    when a concrete ceiling panel weighing  tons ( kg) and measuring  by  ft ( by  m) fell in 's    .
370 boston The panel fell on a car traveling on the two-lane ramp connecting northbound I-93 to eastbound I-90 in South Boston, killing a passenger and injuring the driver. The panel fell on a car traveling on the two-lane ramp connecting northbound I-93 to eastbound I-90 in  , killing a passenger and injuring the driver.
371 boston The collapse caused a section of the tunnel to be closed for almost a full year. The collapse caused a section of the tunnel to be closed for almost a full .
372 boston On 16 March 1943, Newton led a sortie on the Salamaua Isthmus in which his Boston was hit repeatedly by Japanese anti-aircraft fire, damaging fuselage, wings, fuel tanks and undercarriage. On   ,  led a sortie on the   in which his  was hit repeatedly by  anti-aircraft fire, damaging fuselage, wings, fuel tanks and undercarriage.
373 boston In spite of this he continued his attack and dropped his bombs at low level on buildings, ammunition dumps and fuel stores, returning for a second pass at the target in order to strafe it with machine-gun fire. In spite of this he continued his ttck nd dropped his bombs t low level on buildings, mmunition dumps nd fuel stores, returning for   pss t the trget in order to strfe it with mchine-gun fire.
374 boston Newton managed to get his crippled machine back to base, where it was found to be marked with ninety-eight bullet holes. managed to get his crippled machine back to base, where it was found to be marked with  bullet holes.
375 boston Two days later, he and his two-man crew made a further attack on Salamaua with five other Bostons. , he and his two-man crew made a further attack on  with  other Bostons.
376 boston As he bombed his designated target, Newton's plane was seen to burst into flames, raked by cannon fire from the ground. As he bombed his designated target, 's plane was seen to burst into flames, raked by cannon fire from the ground.
377 boston Attempting to keep his aircraft aloft as long as possible to get his crew away from enemy lines, he was able to ditch in the sea approximately  offshore. Attempting to keep his aircraft aloft as long as possible to get his crew away from enemy lines, he was able to ditch in the sea approximately  offshore.
378 boston Just two months later, on June 6, Black Eagle Dam suffered damage in yet another flood. Just   , on  , Black Eagle Dam suffered damage in yet another flood.
379 boston Almost  of rain fell in 24 hours, and the Missouri River rose by almost  in eight hours. Almost  of rain fell in  , and the   rose by almost  in  .
380 boston The Missouri River rose  above flood stage (which itself was  above the median water level). The   rose  above flood stage (which itself was  above the median water level).
381 boston Five people in the city drowned. people in the city drowned.
382 boston The Boston and Montana smelter toppled four fully loaded railroad cars into the Missouri just north of Black Eagle Dam in an attempt to divert the floodwaters from the plant. The  and  smelter toppled  fully loaded railroad cars into the Missouri just north of    in an attempt to divert the floodwaters from the plant.
383 boston The worst flood in the city's history at the time, several buildings in town were also washed away. The worst flood in the city's history at the time, several buildings in town were also washed away.
384 boston They smashed against Black Eagle Dam, and some went over the dam to break up on the waterfalls below. They smashed against   , and some went over the dam to break up on the waterfalls below.
385 boston The pedestrian suspension bridge over the dam also washed out. The pedestrian suspension bridge over the dam also washed out.
386 boston (A plaque was placed on the 6th Street underpass to mark the extent of the high water. (A plaque was placed on the  Street underpass to mark the extent of the high water.
387 boston It can be seen there today.) It can be seen there .)
388 boston The dam itself suffered some damage as well. The dam itself suffered some damage as well.
389 boston This damage was repaired, and the old wooden bridge to Tailrace Island replaced with a single-span steel Warren truss bridge capable of handling automobiles. This damage was repaired, and the old wooden bridge to   replaced with a single-span steel  truss bridge capable of handling automobiles.
390 boston The island now began to also serve as a parking lot for powerhouse and smelter workers. The island  began to also serve as a parking lot for powerhouse and smelter workers.
391 boston On April 14, 1908, at about 2:30 PM, Hauser Dam—a steel dam about 90 miles upstream from Great Falls— failed. On    at about 2:30 PM  —a steel dam about  miles upstream from  — failed.
392 boston A surge of water  to  high swept downstream. A surge of water  to  high swept downstream.
393 boston A Great Northern Railway locomotive was dispatched to the city of Great Falls, warning stations along the way about the dam break. A  Northern Railway locomotive was dispatched to the city of  , warning stations along the way about the dam break.
394 boston Workers at the Boston and Montana Smelter in Great Falls improvised a wing dam to deflect the floodwaters away from the smelter site and dynamited a portion of Black Eagle Dam to allow the floodwaters to go downstream. Workers at the  and  Smelter in   improvised a wing dam to deflect the floodwaters away from the smelter site and dynamited a portion of Black Eagle Dam to allow the floodwaters to go downstream.
395 boston Their efforts were not needed, as the Missouri River only rose  by the time it reached that city. Their efforts were not needed, as the   only rose  by the time it reached that city.
396 boston Two deaths occurred while the dynamiting attempt was made, however: One man drowned while trying to remove flashboards from the dam, and another drowned when his boat capsized. deaths occurred while the dynamiting attempt was made, however:  man drowned while trying to remove flashboards from the dam, and another drowned when his boat capsized.
397 boston The ship's captain was dismissed and replaced with captain Moore. The ship's captain was dismissed and replaced with captain .
398 boston The following season's journey to China was relatively uneventful, only involving the loss of the mizzen topgallant mast in a collision. The following season's journey to  was relatively uneventful, only involving the loss of the mizzen topgallant mast in a collision.
399 boston Moore was moved to command "Cutty sark" and replaced with Sam Bissett, who had been mate on the maiden voyage. was moved to command "Cutty sark" and replaced with  , who had been mate on the maiden voyage.
400 boston Carrying coal from Sydney to Shanghai she was caught in a typhoon, which caused the ship to heel over so much that the main and mizzen masts had to be cut away  once more to right her. Carrying coal from  to  she was caught in a typhoon, which caused the ship to heel over so much that the main and mizzen masts had to be cut away   more to right her.
401 boston The cargo had shifted and had to be moved before the ship could be properly righted, but she limped on to Shanghai where new masts were fitted and she proceeded to Iloio and loaded a cargo for  Boston. The cargo had shifted and had to be moved before the ship could be properly righted, but she limped on to  where new masts were fitted and she proceeded to  and loaded a cargo for  .
402 boston In the China sea the ship hit an uncharted reef and stuck fast, despite throwing the cargo overboard. In the  sea the ship hit an uncharted reef and stuck fast, despite throwing the cargo overboard.
403 boston the ship was abandoned and the crew taken off by  "Albyn's isle", which had come to their assistance. the ship was abandoned and the crew taken off by  "Albyn's isle", which had come to their assistance.
404 boston A squall sprang up, which now blew the ship clear of the reef and after  a chase of some hours the crew managed to reboard the ship and take control of their vessel again. A squall sprang up, which  blew the ship clear of the reef and after  a chase of some  the crew managed to reboard the ship and take control of their vessel again.
405 boston A slow journey to Boston followed. A slow journey to  followed.
406 boston For the fourth season she was commanded by captain White. For the  season she was commanded by captain .
407 boston The "Blue Hill Meteorological Observatory", also known as "Great Blue Hill Weather Observatory", "Blue Hill Weather Observatory", or simply the "Blue Hill Observatory", in Milton, Massachusetts is the foremost structure associated with the history of weather observations in the United States. The "Blue   ", also known as "Great Blue  Weather ", "Blue  Weather ", or simply the "Blue  ", in ,  is the foremost structure associated with the history of weather observations in the  .
408 boston Located atop Great Blue Hill at the junction of Interstate 20px and Route20px about 10 miles (16 km) south of Boston, Massachusetts, it is home to the oldest continuous weather record in North America, and was the location of the earliest kite soundings of the atmosphere in North America in the 1890s, as well as the development of the radiosonde in the 1930s. Located atop    at  junction of Interstate 20px and Route20px about  miles ( km) south of , , it is home to  oldest continuous wear record in  , and was  location of  earliest kite soundings of  atmosphere in   in  , as well as  development of  radiosonde in  .
409 boston The British bomber crews had intended to bomb the Haagse Bos where the Germans had installed V-2 launching facilities that had been used to attack English cities. The  bomber crews had intended to bomb the Haagse Bos where the  had installed V-2 launching facilities that had been used to attack  cities.
410 boston But the pilots were issued with the wrong coordinates so the meteorological instruments of the bombers had been set incorrectly, and fog and clouds obscured their vision. But the pilots were issued with the wrong coordinates so the meteorological instruments of the bombers had been set incorrectly, and fog and clouds obscured their vision.
411 boston The bombs were instead dropped on the Bezuidenhout residential neighbourhood. The bombs were instead dropped on the Bezuidenhout residential neighbourhood.
412 boston On the morning of 3 March, 56 medium and light bombers of the B-25 Mitchell and Boston types from No. 137 and No. 139 Wings of the Second Tactical Air Force took off from the airfields Melsbroek near Brussels and Vitry in Northern France. On the morning of 3 ,  medium and light bombers of the B-25  and  types from No.  and No.  Wings of the     took off from the airfields  near  and  in  .
413 boston Between 8 and 9 o'clock in the morning the bombers dropped 67 tonnes of brisant bombs on the Bezuidenhout, wreaking widespread destruction. Between  and 9 o'clock in the morning the bombers dropped  tonnes of brisant bombs on the , wreaking widespread destruction.
414 boston On January 15, 1919, in the North End neighborhood, a large molasses storage tank burst, and a wave of molasses rushed through the streets at an estimated , killing 21 and injuring 150. On    in the   neighborhood a large molasses storage tank burst and a wave of molasses rushed through the streets at an estimated  killing  and injuring 0.
415 boston The event has entered local folklore, known as The Boston Molasses Disaster. event has entered local folklore, known as    .
416 boston Summers are typically warm, rainy, and humid, while winters are cold, windy, and snowy. Summers are typically warm, rainy, and humid, while winters are cold, windy, and snowy.
417 boston Spring and fall are usually mild, but conditions are widely varied, depending on wind direction and jet stream positioning. and  are usually mild, but conditions are widely varied, depending on wind direction and jet stream positioning.
418 boston Prevailing wind patterns that blow offshore affect Boston, minimizing the influence of the Atlantic Ocean. Prevailing wind patterns that blow offshore affect , minimizing the influence of the  .
419 boston Boston's coastal location on the North Atlantic, although it moderates temperatures, also makes the city very prone to Nor'easter weather systems that can produce much snow and rain. 's coastal location on the  , although it moderates temperatures, also makes the city very prone to Nor'easter weather systems that can produce much snow and rain.
420 boston The city averages  of precipitation a year, with  of snowfall a year. The city verges  of precipittion  yer, with  of snowfll  yer.
421 boston Snowfall increases dramatically as one goes inland away from the city (especially north and west of the city)—away from the warming influence of the ocean. Snowfall increases dramatically as  goes inland away from the city (especially north and west of the city)—away from the warming influence of the ocean.
422 boston Most snowfall occurs from December through March. Most snowfall occurs from  through .
423 boston There is usually little or no snow in April and November, and snow is rare in May and October. There is usually little or no snow in  and , and snow is rare in  and .
424 boston Fog is somewhat common, particularly in spring and early summer, and the occasional tropical storm or hurricane can threaten the region, especially in early autumn. Fog is somewhat common, particularly in  and  , and the occasional tropical storm or hurricane can threaten the region, especially in  .
425 boston Due to its situation along the North Atlantic, the city is often subjected to sea breezes, especially in the late spring, when water temperatures are still quite cold and temperatures at the coast can be more than  colder than a few miles inland, sometimes dropping by that amount near midday. Due to its situation along   ,  city is often subjected to sea breezes, especially in   , when water temperatures are still quite cold and temperatures at  coast can be more than  colder than a few miles inland, sometimes dropping by that amount near midday.
426 boston From May to September, the city experiences thunderstorms that are occasionally severe; large hail, damaging winds and heavy downpours accompany such severe events. From  to , the city experiences thunderstorms that are occasionally severe; large hail, damaging winds and heavy downpours accompany such severe events.
427 boston Although downtown Boston has never been struck by a violent tornado, the city itself has seen its fair share of tornado warnings, but damaging storms are more common to areas north, west, and northwest of the city. Although downtown  has never been struck by a violent tornado, the city itself has seen its fair share of tornado warnings, but damaging storms are more common to areas north, west, and northwest of the city.
428 boston In 2010, Boston Duck Tours was asked to help transport flood victims in Wayland, MA. In ,    was asked to help transport flood victims in , .
429 boston Torrential rains had left Pelham Island area of Wayland isolated and the Ducks were brought in to ferry people in and out of their neighborhood until the waters receded. Torrential rains had left   area of  isolated and the  were brought in to ferry people in and out of their neighborhood until the waters receded.
430 boston The second "Great Fire" of Boston began on November 9, 1872. The  "Great Fire" of  began on   .
431 boston The fire destroyed 776 buildings, killed 13 people, and caused $75,000,000 in property damage. The fire destroyed  buildings, killed  people, and caused $75,000,000 in property damage.
432 boston The fire required mutual aid companies from as far away as New Haven, Connecticut and Manchester, New Hampshire. The fire required mutual aid companies from as far away as  ,  and ,  .
433 boston On January 11, 2009, only two days after the fatal accident, another apparatus malfunction occurred. On    only   after the fatal accident another apparatus malfunction occurred.
434 boston Ladder 15 was en route to Boston Fire Headquarters to have maintenance work done when the turbo fuel injector malfunctioned, flooding the engine thus launching the truck into a parked vehicle. Ladder  was en route to  Fire Headquarters to have maintenance work done when the turbo fuel injector malfunctioned, flooding the engine thus launching the truck into a parked vehicle.
435 boston That day Ladder 15 was using a nineteen year old reserve apparatus out of the Boylston Street fire station. That  Ladder  was using a    reserve apparatus out of the Boylston Street fire station.
436 boston It's 2004 frontline piece was out for maintenance. It's  frontline piece was out for maintenance.
437 boston On May 22, 1964, the Bellflower Street Conflagration occurred and ultimately destroyed or damaged 35 multi-family dwellings. On    the  Street Conflagration occurred and ultimately destroyed or damaged  multi-family dwellings.
438 boston This conflagration would greatly tax the resources of the Boston Fire Department and the Greater Boston mutual-aid network before being brought under control. This conflagration would greatly tax the resources of the    and the   mutual-aid network before being brought under control.
439 boston Although many firefighters and citizens were injured, no fatalities were recorded. Although many firefighters and citizens were injured, no fatalities were recorded.
440 boston Questions have been raised about the safety of the apparatus on the Boston Fire Department. Questions have been raised about the safety of the apparatus on the   .
441 boston On January 9, 2009, Lieutenant Kevin Kelley, 52, was killed and 3 other firefighters were seriously injured when the apparatus they were riding on, Ladder 26, struck a building while returning to the station from a medical call. On   200 Lieutenant    was killed and  other firefighters were seriously injured when the apparatus they were riding on Ladder  struck a building while returning to the station from a medical call.
442 boston A braking malfunction has been cited as the culprit of the fatal accident. A braking malfunction has been cited as the culprit of the fatal accident.
443 boston Ladder 26, accompanied by Engine 37, was stationed out of the Huntington Avenue fire station which has been said to be the busiest in Boston. Ladder , accompanied by Engine , was stationed out of the   fire station which has been said to be the busiest in .
444 boston The "Boston Fire Department" ("BFD") provides fire protection services for Boston, Massachusetts, USA. The " Fire Department" ("BFD") provides fire protection services for , , .
445 boston In addition to fire protection, the BFD also provides emergency medical services at the BLS level and respond to a variety of emergencies such as, but not limited to, motor vehicle accidents, hazardous material spills, electrical hazards, floods, and construction accidents. In addition to fire protection, the  also provides emergency medical services at the  level and respond to a variety of emergencies such as, but not limited to, motor vehicle accidents, hazardous material spills, electrical hazards, floods, and construction accidents.
446 boston The department serves approximately 617,000 people in a  area of the city proper and additional mutual aid to 32 surrounding communities of the Greater Boston Metro Area including Logan International Airport. The department serves approximately  people in a  area of the city proper and additional mutual aid to  surrounding communities of the     including   .
447 boston Headquarters is located at 115 Southampton Street, Roxbury. Headquarters is located at   , .
448 boston The Training Academy is located on Moon Island in Boston Harbor. The Training Academy is located on   in  .
449 boston The Boston Fire Department responds to approximately 72,000 emergency calls annually. The    responds to approximately  emergency calls annually.
450 boston At 2:35 PM on Saturday, June 17, 1972, an alarm from Box 1571 was received at Boston Fire Alarm for the Hotel Vendome on Commonwealth Avenue at Dartmouth Street in the Back Bay. At 2:35 PM on     an alarm from Box  was received at  Fire Alarm for the Hotel Vendome on Commonwealth Avenue at   in the  .
451 boston It took nearly three hours to stop the 4-alarm blaze. It took    to stop the 4-alarm blaze.
452 boston During overhauling operations the southeast section of the building unexpectedly collapsed killing 9 Boston firefighters: Lieutenant Thomas J. Carroll (Engine 32), Lieutenant John E. Hanbury (Ladder 13), Firefighter Richard B. Magee (Engine 33), Firefighter Joseph F. Boucher (Engine 22), Firefighter Paul J. Murphy (Engine 32), Firefighter John E. Jameson (Engine 22), Firefighter Charles E. Dolan (Ladder 13), Firefighter Joseph P. Saniuk (Ladder 13) and Firefighter Thomas W. Beckwith (Engine 32); and injuring 8 more. During overhauling operations the southeast section of the building unexpectedly collapsed killing   firefighters: Lieutenant    (Engine ), Lieutenant    (Ladder ), Firefighter    (Engine ), Firefighter    (Engine ), Firefighter    (Engine ), Firefighter    (Engine ), Firefighter    (Ladder ), Firefighter    (Ladder ) and Firefighter    (Engine ); and injuring  more.
453 boston The famous Boston fire of 1872 led to the appointment of a board of fire commissioners. The famous  fire of  led to the appointment of a board of fire commissioners.
454 boston The Boston Fire Department also provided assistance in the Great Chelsea Fire of 1908 and the Great Salem Fire of 1914. The    also provided assistance in the Great Chelsea  of  and the Great Salem  of .
455 boston A large fire occurred at 133-139 Federal Street on May 2, 1858. A large fire occurred at  Federal Street on   .
456 boston The building was constructed of granite and wood, and occupied by an axe manufacturer and a bindery. The building was constructed of granite and wood, and occupied by an axe manufacturer and a bindery.
457 boston Two Boston Firefighters were killed as a result of the fire, when a wall collapsed onto the roof of a nearby building on which they were performing their duties. Boston Firefighters were killed as a result of the fire, when a wall collapsed onto the roof of a nearby building on which they were performing their duties.
458 boston The deceased firefighters were the first two persons interred at the Fireman's Lot at Forest Hills Cemetery. The deceased firefighters were the   persons interred at the Fireman's Lot at   .
459 boston Both incidents raised questions about the safety of the fire department's apparatus. Both incidents raised questions about the safety of the fire department's apparatus.
460 boston The Firefighters Union called upon the Massachusetts State Police Vehicle Inspection Unit to inspect all fire apparatus at the Boston Fire Department. The fighters Union called upon the    Vehicle Inspection Unit to inspect all fire apparatus at the   .
461 boston This fire was the worst tragedy in the history of the Boston Fire Department and one of the most deadly fires in the history of U.S. firefighting. This fire was the worst tragedy in the history of the    and  of the most deadly fires in the history of  firefighting.
462 boston On the evening of August 29, 2007, firefighters responded to a report of a fire in the Tai-Ho Chinese restaurant in the West Roxbury neighborhood of Boston. On the evening of    firefighters responded to a report of a fire in the Tai-Ho  restaurant in the   neighborhood of .
463 boston It was reported that smoke was observed on arrival, and a second alarm was promptly transmitted out of concern for the adjoining businesses. It ws reported tht smoke ws observed on rrivl, nd   lrm ws promptly trnsmitted out of concern for the djoining businesses.
464 boston In 1856, the height of the tower was raised to  and it was listed as a second-order station. In , the height of the tower was raised to  and it was listed as a second-order station.
465 boston On November 2, 1861, the square rigger "Maritana", 991 tons, which had sailed from Liverpool 38 days earlier, with Captain Williams, ran into heavy seas in Massachusetts Bay and approached Boston in a blinding snow, driven by a howling southeaster. On    the square rigger "Maritana"  tons which had sailed from     with Captain  ran into heavy seas in   and approached  in a blinding snow driven by a howling southeaster.
466 boston At 1 o’clock in the morning of November 3, she sighted Boston Light and headed for it, but crashed on Shag Rocks soon after, with passengers and crew ordered into the weather chains after the crew had cut the masts away. At  o’clock in the morning of  , she sighted   and headed for it, but crashed on Shag Rocks soon after, with passengers and crew ordered into the weather chains after the crew had cut the masts away.
467 boston The ship broke in two and Captain Williams was crushed to death, but seven persons floated to Shag Rocks atop the pilot house, while five others swam to the ledge, as fragments of the wreckage started coming ashore on both sides of Little Brewster Island. The ship broke in  and Captain  was crushed to death, but  persons floated to Shag Rocks atop the pilot house, while  others swam to the ledge, as fragments of the wreckage started coming ashore on both sides of   .
468 boston A dory from the pilot boat rescued the survivors from the rocks. A dory from the pilot boat rescued the survivors from the rocks.
469 boston When the "Fanny Pike" went ashore on Shag Rocks in 1882, Keeper Thomas Bates rowed out and took the crew safely off the ledge. When the "Fanny Pike" went ashore on Shag Rocks in , Keeper   rowed out and took the crew safely off the ledge.
470 boston The "Boston Massacre", called the "Incident on King Street" by the British, was an incident on March 5, 1770, in which British Army soldiers killed five civilian men and injured six others. The " " called the "Incident on King Street" by the  was an incident on    in which   soldiers killed  civilian men and injured  others.
471 boston British troops had been stationed in Boston, capital of the Province of Massachusetts Bay, since 1768 in order to protect and support crown-appointed colonial officials  attempting to enforce unpopular Parliamentary legislation. troops had been stationed in , capital of the Province of  , since  in order to protect and support crown-appointed colonial officials  attempting to enforce unpopular Parliamentary legislation.
472 boston Amid ongoing tense relations between the population and the soldiers, a mob formed around a British sentry, who was subjected to verbal abuse and harassment. Amid ongoing tense relations between the population and the soldiers, a mob formed around a  sentry, who was subjected to verbal abuse and harassment.
473 boston He was eventually supported by eight additional soldiers, who were subjected to verbal threats and thrown objects. He was eventually supported by  additional soldiers, who were subjected to verbal threats and thrown objects.
474 boston They fired into the crowd, without orders, instantly killing three people and wounding others. They fired into the crowd, without orders, instantly killing  people and wounding others.
475 boston Two more people died later of wounds sustained in the incident. more people died later of wounds sustained in the incident.
476 boston First to the scene were 116 cadets under the direction of Lieutenant Commander H. J. Copeland from USS "Nantucket", a training ship of the Massachusetts Nautical School (which is now the Massachusetts Maritime Academy), that was docked nearby at the playground pier. to the scene were  cadets under the direction of Lieutenant Commander    from USS "Nantucket", a training ship of the    (which is  the   ), that was docked nearby at the playground pier.
477 boston They ran several blocks toward the accident. They ran several blocks toward the accident.
478 boston They worked to keep the curious from getting in the way of the rescuers while others entered into the knee-deep sticky mess to pull out the survivors. They worked to keep the curious from getting in the way of the rescuers while others entered into the knee-deep sticky mess to pull out the survivors.
479 boston Soon the Boston Police, Red Cross, Army and other Navy personnel arrived. Soon the  ,  ,  and other  personnel arrived.
480 boston Some nurses from the Red Cross dived into the molasses, while others tended to the wounded, keeping them warm as well as keeping the exhausted workers fed. Some nurses from the   dived into the molasses, while others tended to the wounded, keeping them warm as well as keeping the exhausted workers fed.
481 boston Many of these people worked through the night. Many of these people worked through the night.
482 boston The injured were so numerous that doctors and surgeons set up a makeshift hospital in a nearby building. The injured were so numerous that doctors and surgeons set up a makeshift hospital in a nearby building.
483 boston Rescuers found it difficult to make their way through the syrup to help the victims. Rescuers found it difficult to make their way through the syrup to help the victims.
484 boston It took four days before they stopped searching for victims; many dead were so glazed over in molasses, they were hard to recognize. It took   before they stopped searching for victims; many dead were so glazed over in molasses, they were hard to recognize.
485 boston "The Boston Globe" reported that people "were picked up by a rush of air and hurled many feet." "The  " reported that people "were picked up by a rush of air and hurled many feet."
486 boston Others had debris hurled at them from the rush of sweet-smelling air. Others had debris hurled at them from the rush of sweet-smelling air.
487 boston A truck was picked up and hurled into Boston Harbor. A truck was picked up and hurled into  .
488 boston Approximately 150 were injured; 21 people and several horses were killed — some were crushed and drowned by the molasses. Approximately  were injured;  people and several horses were killed — some were crushed and drowned by the molasses.
489 boston The wounded included people, horses, and dogs; coughing fits became one of the most common ailments after the initial blast. The wounded included people, horses, and dogs; coughing fits became  of the most common ailments after the initial blast.
490 boston The collapse unleashed an immense wave of molasses between 8 and 15 ft (2.5 and 4.5 m) high, moving at 35 mph (56 km/h), and exerting a pressure of 2 ton/ft² (200 kPa). The collapse unleashed an immense wave of molasses between    ft (   m) high, moving at  mph ( km/h),  exerting a pressure of  ton/ft² (00 kPa).
491 boston The molasses wave was of sufficient force to damage the girders of the adjacent Boston Elevated Railway's Atlantic Avenue structure and tip a railroad car momentarily off the tracks. The molasses wave was of sufficient force to damage the girders of the adjacent   's   structure and tip a railroad car momentarily off the tracks.
492 boston Nearby, buildings were swept off their foundations and crushed. Nearby, buildings were swept off their foundations and crushed.
493 boston Several blocks were flooded to a depth of . Several blocks were flooded to a depth of .
494 boston As described by author Stephen Puleo: As described by author  :
495 boston The "Boston Molasses Disaster", also known as the "Great Molasses Flood" and the "Great Boston Molasses Tragedy", occurred on January 15, 1919, in the North End neighborhood of Boston, Massachusetts in the United States. The " Molasses Disaster" also known as the "Great Molasses Flood" and the "Great  Molasses Tragedy" occurred on    in the   neighborhood of   in the  .
496 boston A large molasses storage tank burst, and a wave of molasses rushed through the streets at an estimated 35 mph (56 km/h), killing 21 and injuring 150. A large molasses storage tank burst, and a wave of molasses rushed through the streets at an estimated  mph ( km/h), killing  and injuring .
497 boston The event has entered local folklore, and residents claim that on hot summer days, the area still smells of molasses. The event has entered local folklore, and residents claim that on hot  , the area still smells of molasses.
498 boston The Boston Neck was originally about  wide at normal high tide. The   was originally about  wide at normal high tide.
499 boston The first wave of settlers built a wooden town gate and earthen wall on the neck in about 1631 to prevent attacks from Indians and to keep out unwanted animals and people. The  wave of settlers built a wooden town gate and earthen wall on the neck in   to prevent attacks from  and to keep out unwanted animals and people.
500 boston The gate was constantly guarded and usually locked during certain times during the evening. The gate was constantly guarded and usually locked during certain times during the evening.
501 boston No residents could enter or leave during that period. No residents could enter or leave during that period.
502 boston There was a wooden gallows just outside the town gate. There was a wooden gallows just outside the town gate.
503 boston Burglars and pickpockets were commonly executed in those days, as well as murderers. Burglars and pickpockets were commonly executed in those , as well as murderers.
504 boston Violence peaked the next evening, the night of September 10–11. Violence peaked        –.
505 boston Businesses were better prepared. Businesses were better prepared.
506 boston Some had boarded up and others stayed open all night with armed guards visible to discourage thieves taking advantage of the strike. Some had boarded up and others stayed open all night with armed guards visible to discourage thieves taking advantage of the strike.
507 boston Gamblers played dice in open view, and women had their handbags snatched. Gamblers played dice in open view, and women had their handbags snatched.
508 boston But the Guard proved inexperienced at handling crowds and they were quick to assert control without regard for loss of life. But the  proved inexperienced at handling crowds and they were quick to assert control without regard for loss of life.
509 boston Gunfire in South Boston left two dead and others wounded. Gunfire in   left  dead and others wounded.
510 boston Scollay Square, a center of amusement halls and theaters, was reportedly the scene of a riot where one died. Scollay Square, a center of amusement halls and theaters, was reportedly the scene of a riot where  died.
511 boston Whether the crowds were threatening property or making trouble because they were in sympathy with the strikers is unknown. Whether the crowds were threatening property or making trouble because they were in sympathy with the strikers is unknown.
512 boston The death total ultimately reached nine. The death total ultimately reached .
513 boston Although pay was the primary grievance of the Boston police, there were many other problems. Although pay was the primary grievance of the  police, there were many other problems.
514 boston Beyond the pay scale there was the matter of hours, which had not changed in over half a century. Beyond the py scle there ws the mtter of , which hd not chnged in over hlf  .
515 boston Patrolmen worked a 7-day week, with one day off every 15 days. worked a  , with   off every 15 s.
516 boston Patrolmen who worked the day shift put in 73 hours a week and "night men" worked 83 hours a week, while "wagon men" worked 98 hours. Ptrolmen who worked   shift put in     nd "night men" worked    , while "wgon men" worked  .
517 boston After a day off, the men were required to serve a "house day" which meant they were on call at the station from 8:00am until 6:00pm performing various tasks such as recording duty, wagon runs and attending to the "signal desk." After  dy off, the men were required to serve  "house dy" which ment they were on cll t the sttion from 8:00m until 6:00pm performing vrious tsks such s recording duty, wgon runs nd ttending to the "signl desk."
518 boston After a three-hour break, they reported back to the station house at 9:00pm where they slept for three hours until 12:00am at which time the bell rang for roll call and they "went out on the street" until 8:00am. After a  break, they reported back to the station house at 9:00pm where they slept for   until 12:00am at which time the bell rang for roll call and they "went out on the street" until 8:00am.
519 boston After that, they could go home, but had to be back at 6:00pm for what they called an "evening on the floor" which meant performing the same type of duties such as taking care of prisoners, wagon trips or "whatever turned up." After that, they could go home, but had to be back at 6:00pm for what they called an "evening on the floor" which meant performing the same type of duties such as taking care of prisoners, wagon trips or "whatever turned up."
520 boston At 9:00pm the patrolman went back to bed for three hours. At 9:00pm the patrolman went back to bed for  .
521 boston On December 6, 1917 at 9:00 AM, the Halifax Explosion severely destroyed much of the city. On    at 9:00 AM the  Explosion severely destroyed much of the city.
522 boston Boston authorities learned of the disaster via telegraph, and quickly organized and dispatched a relief train around 10:00 PM that night, to assist survivors. authorities learned of the disaster via telegraph, and quickly organized and dispatched a relief train around 10:00 PM that night, to assist survivors.
523 boston A blizzard following the explosion delayed the train, which finally arrived in the early morning on December 8, and immediately began distributing food, water, and medical supplies. A blizzard following the explosion delayed the train, which finally arrived in the early morning on  , and immediately began distributing food, water, and medical supplies.
524 boston Numerous personnel on the train were able to relieve the Nova Scotia medical staff, most of whom had worked without rest since the explosion occurred. Numerous personnel on the train were able to relieve the   medical staff, most of whom had worked without rest since the explosion occurred.
525 boston Town meeting authorized a new light, which was completed in 1759, which lasted until 1774. Town meeting authorized a new light, which was completed in , which lasted until .
526 boston From the March 12, 1774, issue of The Massachusetts Gazette and the Boston PostBoy and Advertiser, "We hear from Nantucket that on Wednesday the 9th of March Instant (1774) at about 8 o’clock in the Morning, they had a most violent Gust of Wind that perhaps was ever known there, but it lasted only about a Minute. From     issue  The   nd    nd Advertiser "We her from  tht on      Instnt () t   o’clock in  Morning y hd  most violent Gust  Wind tht perhps ws ever known re but it lsted only   .
527 boston It seemed to come in a narrow Vein, and in its progress blew down. It seemed to come in a narrow Vein, and in its progress blew down.
528 boston and totally destroyed the Light-House on that Island, besides several Shops, Barns, etc. Had the Gust continued fifteen Minutes it is thought it would not have left more than half the Buildings standing, in the Course that it passed. and totally destroyed the Light-House on that , besides several Shops, Barns, etc.Had the Gust continued   it is thought it would not have left more than half the Buildings standing, in the Course that it passed.
529 boston But we don’t hear of any Persons receiving much hurt, nor much Damage done, except the loss of the Light-House which in every respect is considerable." But we don’t hear of any Persons receiving much hurt, nor much Damage done, except the loss of the Light-House which in every respect is considerable."
530 boston Bridgeport Station was also close to the scene of two of Connecticut's worst train accidents. was also close to the scene of  of 's worst train accidents.
531 boston The first occurred on July 11, 1911 about a mile south of the station, near where Fairfield Avenue (CT 130) passes underneath and I-95 currently passes overhead. The  occurred on   19 about a mile south of the station near where   (CT ) passes underneath and   passes overhead.
532 boston Fourteen people were killed and 40 injured; excessive speed through a crossover was the cause. people were killed and  injured; excessive speed through a crossover was the cause.
533 boston The second occurred on July 14, 1955 due to excessive speed on a sharp curve approaching the station; one person was killed and 58 were injured. The  occurred on    due to excessive speed on a sharp curve approaching the station;  person was killed and  were injured.
534 boston Both accidents involved the same train, the northbound "Federal Express" overnight train from Washington, D.C. to Boston. Both accidents involved the same train, the northbound " " overnight train from ,  to .
535 boston The "Broad Street Riot" occurred in Boston, Massachusetts, U.S., on June 11, 1837. The "Broad Street Riot" occurred in    on   .
536 boston The riot began when a company of Yankee firefighters met with an Irish funeral procession on Broad Street. The riot began when a company of  firefighters met with an  funeral procession on Broad Street.
537 boston Fire Engine Company 20 was returning from a fire in Roxbury. Fire Engine Company  was returning from a fire in .
538 boston Many of the firefighters went to a saloon nearby. Many of the firefighters went to a saloon nearby.
539 boston Afterwards, while traveling back to the firestation, George Fay either insulted or shoved members of a passing Irish funeral procession. Afterwards, while traveling back to the firestation,   either insulted or shoved members of a passing  funeral procession.
540 boston The Irish and firemen began to fight, but under the orders of W.W. Miller, the firemen ran to the station. The  and firemen began to fight, but under the orders of  , the firemen ran to the station.
541 boston Miller sounded the emergency alarm, calling all of the fire engines in Boston. sounded the emergency alarm, calling all of the fire engines in .
542 boston Although many of the Irish had left the scene, the fire companies continued to come as called. Although many of the  had left the scene, the fire companies continued to come as called.
543 boston As the fight continued, local Yankees and Irishmen joined the row. As the fight continued, local  and  joined the row.
544 boston Eventually 1000 people were included in the melee, though no one was killed. Eventually  people were included in the melee, though no  was killed.
545 boston Several houses were broken into and vandalized, and the rioters launched rocks and other missiles at each other. Several houses were broken into and vandalized, and the rioters launched rocks and other missiles at each other.
546 boston The fight was broken up when Mayor Samuel A. Eliot commanded 10 companies from the military to patrol the neighborhoods surrounding Broad Street. The fight was broken up when Mayor    commanded  companies from the military to patrol the neighborhoods surrounding Broad Street.
547 boston Construction on the Phalanstery was progressing well until the evening of March 3, 1846, when it was discovered that the Phalanstery had caught fire. Construction on the Phalanstery was progressing well until the evening of    when it was discovered that the Phalanstery had caught fire.
548 boston Within two hours, the structure had completely burned down; firefighters from Boston arrived too late. Within  , the structure had completely burned down; firefighters from  arrived too late.
549 boston The fire was likely caused by a defective chimney. The fire was likely caused by a defective chimney.
550 boston One participant noted, "Ere long the flames were chasing one another in a mad riot over the structure; running across long corridors and up and down the supporting columns of wood, until the huge edifice was a mass of firework". participant noted, "Ere long the flames were chasing  another in a mad riot over the structure; running across long corridors and up and down the supporting columns of wood, until the huge edifice was a mass of firework".
551 boston The financial blow from the loss of the uninsured building was $7,000 and it marked the beginning of the end of Brook Farm. The financial blow from the loss of the uninsured building was $7,000 and it marked the beginning of the end of  .
552 boston Buck Jones was one of the 492 victims of the 1942 Cocoanut Grove fire in Boston, Massachusetts, dying two days after the November 28 blaze. was  of the  victims of the  Cocoanut Grove fire in , , dying   after the   blaze.
553 boston For years, legend held that Jones's fatal injuries were the result of his going back into the burning building to save victims, but it is now known that he was trapped in the fire. For , legend held that 's fatal injuries were the result of his going back into the burning building to save victims, but it is  kn that he was trapped in the fire.
554 boston Monogram Pictures producer Scott R. Dunlap (1892–1970), who was hosting a party being held in Jones's honor, was seriously hurt but survived. producer    (–), who was hosting a party being held in 's honor, was seriously hurt but survived.
555 boston In 1919, a 15-meter high molasses tank in Boston burst, killing 21 and injuring 150. In , a 15-meter high molasses tank in  burst, killing  and injuring .
556 boston A few other tanks have failed in a similar manner in the United States, but they have usually resulted in relatively few deaths. A few other tanks have failed in a similar manner in the  , but they have usually resulted in relatively few deaths.
557 boston However, bunding's main purpose in unoccupied areas is to prevent environmental damage. However, bunding's main purpose in unoccupied areas is to prevent environmental damage.
558 boston Bund wall failures have occurred in the UK, such as at Warrington, Cheshire  in 1994. Bund wall failures have occurred in the , such as at ,   in .
559 boston A polypropylene tank holding about 30 tonnes of 40% aqueous caustic soda sprang a leak about halfway down the main wall. A polypropylene tank holding about  tonnes of 40% aqueous caustic soda sprang a leak about halfway down the main wall.
560 boston The corrosive fluid jetted out over the bund wall, causing great damage to the surrounding factory and adjacent premises. The corrosive fluid jetted out over the bund wall, causing great damage to the surrounding factory and adjacent premises.
561 boston The bunding at Buncefield also failed to contain  petrol and other fluids. The bunding at  also failed to contain  petrol and other fluids.
562 boston At Boston, Captain James Lawrence took command of "Chesapeake" on 20 May 1813, and on 1 June, put to sea to meet the waiting HMS "Shannon", the frigate whose written challenge had just missed "Chesapeake"s sailing. At , Captain   took command of "" on   , and on  , put to sea to meet the waiting HMS "Shannon", the frigate whose written challenge had just missed ""s sailing.
563 boston During six minutes of firing, the vessels fired two full broadsides; 362 shots struck "Chesapeake", while 258 struck "Shannon". During   of firing, the vessels fired  full broadsides;  shots struck "Chesapeake", while  struck "Shannon".
564 boston "Chesapeake" suffered early in the exchange of broadsides, having her wheel shot away, costing her her maneuverability. "Chesapeake" suffered early in the exchange of broadsides, having her wheel shot away, costing her her maneuverability.
565 boston Lawrence himself was mortally wounded and was carried below. himself was mortally wounded and was carried below.
566 boston The crew struggled to carry out their captain's last order, "Don't give up the ship!", but the British boarding party overwhelmed them. The crew struggled to carry out their captain's last order, "Don't give up the ship!", but the  boarding party overwhelmed them.
567 boston The battle lasted thirteen minutes, killing or wounding 252 men. The battle lasted  , killing or wounding  men.
568 boston "Shannon"s Captain Philip Broke was severely injured in fighting on the forecastle. ""s Captain   was severely injured in fighting on the forecastle.
569 boston "Chesapeake" and her crew were taken to Halifax, Nova Scotia where the sailors were imprisoned; the ship was repaired and taken into service by the Royal Navy. "Chesapeake" and her crew were taken to ,   where the sailors were imprisoned; the ship was repaired and taken into service by the  .
570 boston She was sold at Portsmouth, England in 1820 and broken up. She was sold at ,  in  and broken up.
571 boston Surviving timbers were used to build the nearby Chesapeake Mill in Wickham and can be seen and visited to this day. Surviving timbers were used to build the nearby   in  and can be seen and visited to  .
572 boston Many of his ascents were made alone, as when he went up from Boston in June 1846, and again in July when he made a night ascent from Vauxhall. Many of his ascents were made alone, as when he went up from  in  , and again in  when he made a night ascent from .
573 boston During his career he had many dangerous experiences. During his career he had many dangerous experiences.
574 boston In 1822, when ascending from Cheltenham, accompanied by Mr. Griffiths, some malicious person partly severed the ropes which attached the car to the balloon, so that in starting the car broke away from the balloon, and its occupants had to take refuge on the hoop of the balloon, in which position they had a perilous journey and a most dangerous descent, when they were both injured. In , when ascending from , accompanied by Mr. , some malicious person partly severed the ropes which attached the car to the balloon, so that in starting the car broke away from the balloon, and its occupants had to take refuge on the hoop of the balloon, in which position they had a perilous journey and a most dangerous descent, when they were both injured.
575 boston Mr. Green received a serious contusion on the left side of the chest, and Mr. Griffith a severe injury of the spine. Mr.  received a serious contusion on the left side of the chest, and Mr.  a severe injury of the spine.
576 boston This is the only case on record of such a balloon voyage. This is the only case on record of such a balloon voyage.
577 boston In 1827 Green made his 69th ascent, from Newbury in Berkshire, accompanied by H. Simmons of Reading, a deaf and dumb gentleman, when a violent thunderstorm threatened the safety of the balloon. In   made his  ascent, from  in , accompanied by   of Reading, a deaf and dumb gentleman, when a violent thunderstorm threatened the safety of the balloon.
578 boston On 17 August 1841, on going up from Cremorne with Mr. Macdonnell, a jerk of the grappling-iron upset the car and went near to throwing out the aeronaut and his companion. On   , on going up from  with Mr. , a jerk of the grappling-iron upset the car and went near to throwing out the aeronaut and his companion.
579 boston Green was the first to demonstrate, in 1821, that coal-gas was applicable to the inflation of balloons. was the  to demonstrate, in , that coal-gas was applicable to the inflation of balloons.
580 boston Before his time pure hydrogen gas was used, a substance very expensive, the generation of which was so slow that two days were required to fill a large balloon, and then the gas was excessively volatile. Before his time pure hydrogen gas was used, a substance very expensive, the generation of which was so slow that   were required to fill a large balloon, and then the gas was excessively volatile.
581 boston He was also the inventor of ‘the guide-rope,’ a rope trailing from the car, which could be lowered or raised by means of a windlass and used to regulate the ascent and descent of the balloon. He was also the inventor of ‘the guide-rope,’ a rope trailing from the car, which could be lowered or raised by means of a windlass and used to regulate the ascent and descent of the balloon.
582 boston After living in retirement for many years he died suddenly of heart disease at his residence, Ariel Villa, 51 Tufnell Park, Holloway, London, 26 March 1870. After living in retirement for many  he died suddenly of heart disease at his residence,  ,   , , ,   .
583 boston On May 14, 2008, at around 1:30am, a Boston College bound train derailed just before the Chesnut Hill Avenue stop. On    at around 1:30am a   bound train derailed just before the    stop.
584 boston It struck a nearby utility pole which brought down the overhead wires, causing the trolley to catch fire. It struck a nearby utility pole which brought down the overhead wires, causing the trolley to catch fire.
585 boston Train service was replaced by buses well into the next afternoon. Train service was replaced by buses well into   .
586 boston No injuries were reported, but the trolley suffered significant damage. No injuries were reported, but the trolley suffered significant damage.
587 boston In 1997, a re-investigation of Boston's Cocoanut Grove nightclub fire in 1942 cited a chloromethane leak from a refrigerator as a major cause of that disaster. In , a re-investigation of 's Cocoanut Grove nightclub fire in  cited a chloromethane leak from a refrigerator as a major cause of that disaster.
