0 miami On October 19, a moderate tropical storm was found due west of Miami, Florida. On  , a moderate tropical storm was found due west of , .
1 miami It continued northward while continuing to strengthen. It continued northward while continuing to strengthen.
2 miami The center of circulation (the center of the storm) just missed Bermuda during the afternoon of October 21. The center of circulation (the center of the storm) just missed  during the afternoon of  .
3 miami The storm became extratropical with winds of 60 mph (95 km/h) after slightly weakening. The storm became extratropical with winds of  mph ( km/h) after slightly weakening.
4 miami The storm caused no reports of damages or deaths in Bermuda. The storm caused no reports of damages or deaths in .
5 miami However, the hurricane weakened to a tropical storm again on October 14 as it moved overland, and began to curve north-northwest, restrengthening to a major hurricane by October 17 while it was west-southwest of Cuba. However, the hurricane weakened to a tropical storm again on   as it moved overland, and began to curve north-northwest, restrengthening to a major hurricane by   while it was west-southwest of .
6 miami The hurricane made landfall over Cuba on the evening of October 17. The hurricane made landfall over  on the evening of  .
7 miami The hurricane passed over southern Florida near Pigeon Key and Downtown Miami on October 18. The hurricane passed over southern  near Pigeon Key and   on  .
8 miami The hurricane continued traveling north-northwest; however, it was forced to re-curve south-southwest, as a result of a high-pressure area. The hurricane continued traveling north-northwest; however, it was forced to re-curve south-southwest, as a result of a high-pressure area.
9 miami The hurricane weakened to a tropical storm overland, eventually becoming a tropical depression. The hurricane weakened to a tropical storm overland, eventually becoming a tropical depression.
10 miami The system meandred into the Gulf of Mexico, making a final landfall in Central America on October 23. The system meandred into the   , making a final landfall in   on  .
11 miami In Miami, over 100 houses were destroyed, and the Episcopal and Methodist churches were completely destroyed. In , over  houses were destroyed, and the  and  churches were completely destroyed.
12 miami The jail in Miami was nearly completely dismantled, and the prisoners were evacuated. The jail in  was nearly completely dismantled, and the prisoners were evacuated.
13 miami In Fort Pierce, the Peninsula and Occidental railcar sheds collapsed, with the roofs blown away. In  , the Peninsula and  railcar sheds collapsed, with the roofs blown away.
14 miami A two-story brick saloon was destroyed during the hurricane. A two-story brick saloon was destroyed during the hurricane.
15 miami The Miami telegraph office reported street flooding in the city, and that the telegraph office was flooded. The  telegraph office reported street flooding in the city, and that the telegraph office was flooded.
16 miami Damage in Miami amounted to $160,000. Damage in  amounted to $160,000.
17 miami In Key West, houses and trees were knocked down. In Key West, houses and trees were knocked down.
18 miami In St. Augustine, the tide was described as the "highest in ten years," where streets were flooded throughout the city. In  , the tide was described as the "highest in  ," where streets were flooded throughout the city.
19 miami At least 70 passengers on the steamers "St. At least  passengers on the steamers "St.
20 miami Lucia" and "Peerless" drowned during the storm near Elliott Key. " and "Peerless" drowned during the storm near Elliott Key.
21 miami The steamers "Campbell" and the "Sara" were destroyed near the Isle of Pines, and the "Elmora" sank. The steamers "Campbell" and the "Sara" were destroyed near the Isle of , and the "Elmora" sank.
22 miami Telegraph lines were also down south of Jupiter. Telegraph lines were also down south of .
23 miami Havana sustained major damage from the hurricane, with 50 houses destroyed, and cable operators in Miami, Santiago, and Jamaica were unable to reach telegraph services in the city. sustained major damage from the hurricane, with  houses destroyed, and cable operators in , , and  were unable to reach telegraph services in the city.
24 miami The wall of a legation of the United States was blown down. The wall of a legation of the   was blown down.
25 miami Vedado's sea baths were severely damaged. 's sea baths were severely damaged.
26 miami Havana's streetcar service was temporarily disrupted by the storm. 's streetcar service was temporarily disrupted by the storm.
27 miami Trees were blown down in the parks of Havana. Trees were blown down in the parks of .
28 miami Twenty people were killed in the city, while in Batabanó, nine people were killed, with many others missing. people were killed in the city, while in ,  people were killed, with many others missing.
29 miami In Matanzas, the location of the United States' 28th Infantry, tents were destroyed and there was widespread damage. In , the location of the  '  Infantry, tents were destroyed and there was widespread damage.
30 miami However, nobody was killed or injured in the city. However, nobody was killed or injured in the city.
31 miami In San Luis, tobacco crops were ruined, and 150 tobacco barns in the Alquízar municipality were destroyed. In  , tobacco crops were ruined, and  tobacco barns in the Alquízar municipality were destroyed.
32 miami The sugar crop in Pinar del Río Province survived well during the hurricane. The sugar crop in Pinar del Río Province survived well during the hurricane.
33 miami In the La Guria section of Cuba, the banana crops were completely destroyed. In the   section of , the banana crops were completely destroyed.
34 miami Rivers topped their banks throughout the country. Rivers topped their banks throughout the country.
35 miami The first and only tropical storm of the season originated in a tropical wave, as indicated by weather maps from September 13. The  and only tropical storm of the season originated in a tropical wave, as indicated by weather maps from  .
36 miami The Atlantic hurricane database initially listed the system as a tropical cyclone by September 14, although the 2005 reanalysis concluded that a closed low pressure system had not yet developed. The  hurricane database initially listed the system as a tropical cyclone by  , although the  reanalysis concluded that a closed low pressure system had not yet developed.
37 miami Maps from September 15 display a weak low north of The Bahamas; however, other observations place the new cyclone further south. Maps from   display a weak low north of The ; however, other observations place the new cyclone further south.
38 miami Decreases in air pressure occurred throughout the islands, providing "strong indications of a disturbance". Decreases in air pressure occurred throughout the islands, providing "strong indications of a disturbance".
39 miami The system is officially estimated to have become a tropical depression at 0000 UTC on September 15, approximately  east of Miami, Florida. The system is officially estimated to have become a tropical depression at  UTC on  , approximately  east of , .
40 miami It became a tropical storm about 12 hours later and, that same evening, storm warnings were issued from the east coast of Florida to as far north as Hatteras, North Carolina. It became a tropical storm     and, that same evening, storm warnings were issued from the east coast of  to as far north as ,  .
41 miami Forecasters began to issue advisories to weather stations in the United States when the storm was detected on August 5. Forecasters began to issue advisories to weather stations in the   when the storm was detected on  .
42 miami Forecasters then began to issue warnings to Haiti and Cuba on August 11. Forecasters then began to issue warnings to  and  on  .
43 miami Evacuation reports in both Cuba and Haiti, however, are unavailable. Evacuation reports in both  and , however, are unavailable.
44 miami After the storm hit Jamaica, forecasters predicted the storm might hit southern and western Cuba. After the storm hit , forecasters predicted the storm might hit southern and western .
45 miami Between August 12 and 13, forecasters began to issue tropical storm warnings to the Florida Keys and Miami, Florida ahead of the storm due to shipping interests. Between   and , forecasters began to issue tropical storm warnings to the  Keys and ,  ahead of the storm due to shipping interests.
46 miami By August 13, the hurricane trekked westward as forecast. By  , the hurricane trekked westward as forecast.
47 miami At 5 PM (EST), the tropical storm warnings were then changed to hurricane warnings which extended to the Florida Panhandle. At 5 PM (EST), the tropical storm warnings were then changed to hurricane warnings which extended to the  .
48 miami On the 14th, however, the hurricane did not recurve north and warnings for Miami and later the Florida Keys were dropped, as the storm instead continued west-northwest. On the , however, the hurricane did not recurve north and warnings for  and later the  Keys were dropped, as the storm instead continued west-northwest.
49 miami Because the 1915 hurricane was large (exact size unknown), forecasters began to issue tropical storm warnings from coastal Louisiana to the Florida Panhandle. Because the  hurricane was large (exact size unknown), forecasters began to issue tropical storm warnings from coastal  to the  .
50 miami In addition, warnings were issued in Brownsville, Texas. In addition, warnings were issued in , .
51 miami Since it was clear that the hurricane would make landfall in Texas, the warnings were changed for the entire Texas coastline. Since it was clear that the hurricane would make landfall in , the warnings were changed for the entire  coastline.
52 miami After the hurricane made landfall, officials continued to issue warnings until the storm dissipated on August 23. After the hurricane made landfall, officials continued to issue warnings until the storm dissipated on  .
53 miami It crossed Hispaniola on August 23, weakened to a tropical storm, and paralleled the north coast of Cuba. It crossed  on  , weakened to a tropical storm, and paralleled the north coast of .
54 miami This fast moving storm turned northward, passing west of Miami, Florida on August 25. This fast moving storm turned northward, passing west of ,  on  .
55 miami It dissipated on August 26. It dissipated on  .
56 miami This large storm spread winds of  across Miami, Florida, Burrwood, Louisiana, and Galveston, Texas. This large storm spread winds of  across , , , , and , .
57 miami A total of 1500 cattle were driven off of Padre Island into Laguna Madre. A total of  cattle were driven off of   into  .
58 miami Heavy rains were common across southern Texas, with numerous locations recording  to  of rainfall within 24 hours, which set daily rainfall records. Heavy rains were common across southern , with numerous locations recording  to  of rainfall within  , which set daily rainfall records.
59 miami The death toll in Texas was officially 286, but may have been as high as 600. The death toll in  was officially , but may have been as high as .
60 miami The storm surge damaged a fishing pier in St. Petersburg and destroyed a casino in Gulfport. The storm surge damaged a fishing pier in   and destroyed a casino in .
61 miami In Tampa, much of the city was flooded, and three people were killed in drowning incidents and flying debris. In , much of the city was flooded, and  people were killed in drowning incidents and flying debris.
62 miami In Pasco County, the hurricane destroyed the Mt. In  , the hurricane destroyed the Mt.
63 miami Zion Baptist Church, which was never rebuilt. , which was never rebuilt.
64 miami In addition, the hurricane virtually destroyed much of Passage Key, part of which was later rebuilt. In addition, the hurricane virtually destroyed much of Passage Key, part of which was later rebuilt.
65 miami In Tampa, several buildings of the historic Ballast Point Pavilion were destroyed by the storm. In , several buildings of the historic Ballast Point Pavilion were destroyed by the storm.
66 miami A steamship capsized between Jacksonville and Miami and there were reports of damage to several other small boats offshore. A steamship capsized between  and  and there were reports of damage to several other small boats offshore.
67 miami Agricultural damage from the hurricane was high, with citrus crop losses totaling to $1 million (1921 USD). Agricultural damage from the hurricane was high, with citrus crop losses totaling to $1 million ( USD).
68 miami Damage to fertilizer and other materials also totaled to $1 million (1921 USD). Damage to fertilizer and other materials also totaled to $1 million ( USD).
69 miami In all, the hurricane left 10 people dead (seven unaccounted for) and left $10 million dollars (1921 USD, $92.4 million (2005 USD). In all, the hurricane left  people dead ( unaccounted for) and left $ million dollars ( USD, $92.4 million ( USD).
70 miami The third tropical cyclone of the season formed 420 miles (675 km) southeast of Bridgetown, Barbados on August 16. The  tropical cyclone of the season formed  miles ( km) southeast of ,  on  .
71 miami It moved northwest and crossed the eastern Caribbean as a minimal tropical storm on August 18. It moved northwest and crossed the eastern  as a minimal tropical storm on  .
72 miami On August 19, it passed east of San Juan, Puerto Rico and re-entered the Atlantic Ocean. On  , it passed east of  ,   and re-entered the  .
73 miami On August 20, it quickly strengthened to the equivalent of a Category 1 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale. On  , it quickly strengthened to the equivalent of a Category  hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
74 miami The cyclone slowed and turned west on August 21, and it continued to strengthen east of the northern Bahamas. The cyclone slowed and turned west on  , and it continued to strengthen east of the northern .
75 miami The cyclone strengthened to a peak intensity of 135 mph (215 km/h) north of Grand Bahama on August 24. The cyclone strengthened to a peak intensity of  mph ( km/h) north of   on  .
76 miami At the time, the storm was nearly stationary. At the time, the storm was nearly stationary.
77 miami Several ships reported winds of hurricane force, rough seas, and atmospheric pressure readings to 970 mbar (28.67 inHg) from August 23 through August 25. Several ships reported winds of hurricane force, rough seas, and atmospheric pressure readings to  mbar ( inHg) from   through  .
78 miami The cyclone turned sharply north, remaining east of the East Coast. The cyclone turned sharply north, remaining east of the  .
79 miami On August 25, it quickly weakened, and it passed close to Cape Hatteras on August 26. On  , it quickly weakened, and it passed close to   on  .
80 miami It transitioned to an extratropical cyclone, and it passed over Nova Scotia on August 27. It transitioned to an extratropical cyclone, and it passed over   on  .
81 miami The approach of the storm led to the issuance of storm warnings from Cape Hatteras to Miami, Florida on August 22. The approach of the storm led to the issuance of storm warnings from   to ,  on  .
82 miami Hurricane warnings extended from Beaufort, North Carolina to Cape Henry. Hurricane warnings extended from ,   to  .
83 miami In advance of the storm, radio broadcasts also advised shipping interests to remain cautious north of Puerto Rico. In advance of the storm, radio broadcasts also advised shipping interests to remain cautious north of  .
84 miami No damages occurred along the coast because of the recurving storm. No damages occurred along the coast because of the recurving storm.
85 miami Peak wind gusts reached 74 mph (120 km/h) at Hatteras, North Carolina, and two people drowned along the coast. Peak wind gusts reached  mph ( km/h) at ,  , and  people drowned along the coast.
86 miami Damage was minimal, though Ocracoke Island was flooded during the storm. Damage was minimal, though   was flooded during the storm.
87 miami The White Star passenger liner  was battered by the storm on August 26 while the ship was off the Nantucket Shoals. The White Star passenger liner  was battered by the storm on   while the ship was off the Nantucket Shoals.
88 miami The ship arrived in New York the following day with 75 injured after having what was reported as a "100-foot wave" crash over the liner. The ship arrived in      with  injured after having what was reported as a "100-foot wave" crash over  liner.
89 miami Late on October 13, a minimal tropical storm formed in the western Caribbean Sea east-northeast of northern Honduras. Late on  , a minimal tropical storm formed in the western   east-northeast of northern .
90 miami At the time, it was first detected when atmospheric pressures decreased over the Swan Islands on October 14. At the time, it was  detected when atmospheric pressures decreased over the   on  .
91 miami It moved slowly west-northwest, and it gradually turned north on October 15. It moved slowly west-northwest, and it gradually turned north on  .
92 miami Late on October 15, it steadily intensified, and it attained hurricane intensity on October 17. Late on  , it steadily intensified, and it attained hurricane intensity on  .
93 miami On October 19, it strengthened to the equivalent of a major hurricane, and it struck the Pinar del Río Province of Cuba with sustained winds of at least 120 mph (195 km/h). On  , it strengthened to the equivalent of a major hurricane, and it struck the Pinar del Río Province of  with sustained winds of at least  mph (5 km/h).
94 miami A ship reported a minimum central pressure of 922 mbar (27.23 inHg) near Cayo Jutías, suggesting that the cyclone may have been stronger. A ship reported a minimum central pressure of  mbar ( inHg) near  , suggesting that the cyclone may have been stronger.
95 miami On October 20, the hurricane turned east-northeast in response to the southward movement of a ridge, and it quickly weakened. On  , the hurricane turned east-northeast in response to the southward movement of a ridge, and it quickly weakened.
96 miami Early on October 21, it struck Southwest Florida near Naples, Florida as a Category 1 hurricane, and it entered the Atlantic Ocean north of Miami with 70 mph (110 km/h) winds. Early on  , it struck   near ,  as a Category  hurricane, and it entered the   north of  with  mph (0 km/h) winds.
97 miami The cyclone steadily weakened as it moved across the western Atlantic Ocean, and it dissipated west-southwest of Bermuda on October 23. The cyclone steadily weakened as it moved across the western  , and it dissipated west-southwest of  on  .
98 miami Following reanalysis released in March 2009, the storm was re-classified as a Category 5 with winds of 165 mph (270 km/h) and a minimum pressure of 910 mbar (hPa). Following reanalysis released in  , the storm was re-classified as a Category  with winds of 16 mph ( km/h) and a minimum pressure of  mbar (hPa).
99 miami This makes Hurricane Ten the earliest Category 5 recorded in the Atlantic Basin and ties it with Hurricane Ivan for the 10th most intense storm ever recorded in the Atlantic. This makes   the earliest Category  recorded in the   and ties it with   for the  most intense storm ever recorded in the .
100 miami Several days prior to striking Florida, the outer circulation began producing rainfall across the state. prior to striking , the outer circulation began producing rainfall across the state.
101 miami Storm warnings were issued along the east and west coastlines northward to Cedar Key and Titusville. Storm warnings were issued along the east and west coastlines northward to Cedar Key and .
102 miami Later, hurricane warnings were issued for much of the same area, and schools in the Tampa area were closed as the storm was expected to move ashore. Later, hurricane warnings were issued for much of the same area, and schools in the  area were closed as the storm was expected to move ashore.
103 miami The hurricane first affected Florida when it passed west of Key West, where sustained winds of 66 mph (107 km/h), along with gusts to 74 mph (120 km/h), were reported. The hurricane  affected  when it passed west of  , where sustained winds of  mph ( km/h), along with gusts to  mph ( km/h), were reported.
104 miami Little damage occurred in the region, limited to downed trees; this was due to advanced warning by the U.S. Weather Bureau, which advised ships to remain at port and for residents to secure property. Little damage occurred in the region, limited to downed trees; this was due to advanced warning by the   , which advised ships to remain at port and for residents to secure property.
105 miami Later, the hurricane moved ashore in a sparsely populated region of southwestern Florida. Later, the hurricane moved ashore in a sparsely populated region of southwestern .
106 miami Damage was reported in Fort Myers and Punta Gorda and communications were temporarily cut, although no deaths were reported. Damage was reported in   and   and communications were temporarily cut, although no deaths were reported.
107 miami Heavy rainfall was reported along its path, and one location accumulated 23.22 inches (590 mm) in a 24 hour period; this established a new one-day rainfall record in the state. Heavy rainfall was reported along its path, and  location accumulated  inches ( mm) in a   period; this established a new -day rainfall record in the state.
108 miami A station in Miami recorded 12.18 inches (309 mm), and wind gusts in the area approached hurricane force. A station in  recorded  inches ( mm), and wind gusts in the area approached hurricane force.
109 miami The combination of winds and rain damaged 5% of the local citrus and avocado crop. The combination of winds and rain damaged 5% of the local citrus and avocado crop.
110 miami The rainfall flooded streets, homes, and commercial buildings in the Miami area, and hundreds of people were left without telephone access. The rainfall flooded streets, homes, and commercial buildings in the  area, and hundreds of people were left without telephone access.
111 miami No impact was reported in the Bahamas. No impact was reported in the .
112 miami After exiting Cuba into the Gulf of Mexico, the hurricane weakened greatly. After exiting  into the   , the hurricane weakened greatly.
113 miami On October 20 it passed a short distance west of Key West, Florida, and very early on October 21 the hurricane moved over Marco Island with winds of 90 mph (150 km/h). On   it passed a short distance west of  , , and very early on   the hurricane moved over   with winds of  mph ( km/h).
114 miami The cyclone weakened further as it turned eastward through the state, deteriorating to tropical storm status as it passed near or over Miami. The cyclone weakened further as it turned eastward through the state, deteriorating to tropical storm status as it passed near or over .
115 miami It accelerated east-northeastward, moving over the Abaco Islands in The Bahamas. It accelerated east-northeastward, moving over the   in  .
116 miami Gradually weakening, the storm interacted with an approaching cold front; late on October 23 it transitioned into an extratropical cyclone, and shortly thereafter it was absorbed by the front. Gradually weakening, the storm interacted with an approaching cold front; late on   it transitioned into an extratropical cyclone, and shortly thereafter it was absorbed by the front.
117 miami During its passage through Florida, the storm produced torrential rain over coastal cities, peaking in Miami at . During its passage through , the storm produced torrential rain over coastal cities, peaking in  at .
118 miami The storm caused significant property and crop damage along the Gulf Coast of Florida. The storm caused significant property and crop damage along the    .
119 miami Trees, power lines, and telegraph wires were knocked down by high winds along the Suwannee River. Trees, power lines, and telegraph wires were knocked down by high winds along the  .
120 miami Communication throughout southern Florida was severed as miles of telegraph wires were downed during the evening of November 30. Communication throughout southern  was severed as miles of telegraph wires were downed during the evening of  .
121 miami Structures previously considered safe from storms due to their location over 100 ft (30.4 m) inland sustained significant damage, probably from storm surge. Structures  considered safe from storms due to their location over  ft ( m) inland sustained significant damage, probably from storm surge.
122 miami Beaches along the Atlantic coast also sustained considerable damages from the storm. Beaches along the  coast also sustained considerable damages from the storm.
123 miami Four people were killed near Tampa in two separate incidents . people were killed near  in  separate incidents .
124 miami The first occurred when a house collapsed on three men, pinning them to the ground. The  occurred when a house collapsed on  men, pinning them to the ground.
125 miami The second incident occurred after a woman ran outside her home and was struck by a tree limb. The  incident occurred after a woman ran outside her home and was struck by a tree limb.
126 miami At least 12 workmen were killed and 38 others injured after the bunkhouse they were sleeping in collapsed due to high winds. At least  workmen were killed and  others injured after the bunkhouse they were sleeping in collapsed due to high winds.
127 miami The facility in which they were working in also sustained $200,000 in damage from a fire ignited by the cyclone. The facility in which they were working in also sustained $200,000 in damage from a fire ignited by the cyclone.
128 miami Throughout Florida, property loses were estimated at $3 million, with $1 million in Jacksonville alone. Throughout , property loses were estimated at $3 million, with $1 million in  alone.
129 miami Damages to the citrus industry  were also significant, with total losses exceeding $600,000. Damages to the citrus industry  were also significant, with total losses exceeding $600,000.
130 miami Losses in Miami amounted to $250,000 as up to  inundated the city for more than two days. Losses in  amounted to $250,000 as up to  inundated the city for    .
131 miami The "1925 Miami tornado" was a strong tornado that struck Dade County, Florida on April 5, 1925. The "  tornado" was a strong tornado that struck    on   .
132 miami It remains the deadliest tornado to affect the south Florida county, and it is estimated to have been the most intense tornado to strike the Miami area. It remains the deadliest tornado to affect the south  , and it is estimated to have been the most intense tornado to strike the  area.
133 miami The tornado caused five deaths and produced damage totals that were estimated near $200–300,000 (1925 USD). The tornado caused  deaths and produced damage totals that were estimated near $200– ( USD).
134 miami 35 people were also hospitalized because of injuries. people were also hospitalized because of injuries.
135 miami The tornado remains the only tornado to cause multiple fatalities in Dade County. The tornado remains the only tornado to cause multiple fatalities in  .
136 miami It is estimated that the tornado may have produced "F3" damage based on photographs taken after the passage of the thunderstorm. It is estimated that the tornado may have produced "F3" damage based on photographs taken after the passage of the thunderstorm.
137 miami The exact path and strength of the tornado is uncertain, since it occurred prior to modern records which began in 1950. The exact path and strength of the tornado is uncertain, since it occurred prior to modern records which began in .
138 miami The first tornadoes to directly receive damage ratings on the Fujita scale occurred in 1971. The  tornadoes to directly receive damage ratings on the  scale occurred in .
139 miami The 1925 tornado was first reported in its formative stage over the Everglades near Hialeah, where several golfers noted a funnel cloud around 1:00 p.m. Hail was reported with the parent thunderstorm prior to the sighting of the funnel cloud. The  tornado was  reported in its formative stage over the  near , where several golfers noted a funnel cloud around 1:00 p.m. Hail was reported with the parent thunderstorm prior to the sighting of the funnel cloud.
140 miami The slow movement of the storm was accompanied by a large amount of people outside during the Sunday afternoon, which led to a considerable amount of reports; several reports originated from passing motorists. The slow movement of the storm was accompanied by a large amount of people outside during the  afternoon, which led to a considerable amount of reports; several reports originated from passing motorists.
141 miami The vortex touched down around 1:15 p.m., and the tornado was described as a "very slender" funnel that frequently lifted from the ground for brief periods. The vortex touched down around 1:15 p.m., and the tornado was described as a "very slender" funnel that frequently lifted from the ground for brief periods.
142 miami The debris swirling around the rotation was compared to smoke from "burning oil." The debris swirling around the rotation was compared to smoke from "burning oil."
143 miami Later, the slow moving tornado passed over a dairy farm, killing one person and injuring 20 people. Later, the slow moving tornado passed over a dairy farm, killing  person and injuring  people.
144 miami Losses from the farm reached $100,000. Losses from the farm reached $100,000.
145 miami The tornado eventually intensified and destroyed numerous properties northwest and north of the city of Miami, causing at least three deaths. The tornado eventually intensified and destroyed numerous properties northwest and north of the city of , causing at least  deaths.
146 miami Some residents successfully attempted to flee in automobiles, though the cars were wrecked and some were thrown for distances. Some residents successfully attempted to flee in automobiles, though the cars were wrecked and some were thrown for distances.
147 miami The tornado became rain wrapped, weakened, and dissipated over the northern portion of Biscayne Bay, though it destroyed some power poles along the eastern half of its damage path. The tornado became rain wrapped, weakened, and dissipated over the northern portion of  , though it destroyed some power poles along the eastern half of its damage path.
148 miami Hail associated with the storm was measured to three inches (7.6 cm) in diameter, damaging automobiles and residences' roofs. Hail associated with the storm was measured to  inches ( cm) in diameter, damaging automobiles and residences' roofs.
149 miami The damage path was less than 100 yards (0.05 miles) in width, and the funnel was visible for nearly one hour. The damage path was less than  yards ( miles) in width, and the funnel was visible for   .
150 miami The thunderstorm also affected the communities of Ojus, Little River, Biscayne Park, and Lemon City. The thunderstorm also affected the communities of Ojus,  ,  , and  .
151 miami In total, the tornado demolished nearly 50 residences. In total, the tornado demolished nearly  residences.
152 miami In Cuba, impacts were apparently minimal. In , impacts were apparently minimal.
153 miami The cyclone produced sustained winds up to  and pressures as low as  in the Bahamas. The cyclone produced sustained winds up to  and pressures as low as  in the .
154 miami In South Florida, the cyclone apparently did not produce tropical storm-force winds, although thunderstorms produced  of rainfall at Miami, Florida, on September 16. In  , the cyclone apparently did not produce tropical storm-force winds, although thunderstorms produced  of rainfall at , , on  .
155 miami No severe effects occurred and the storm was not mentioned in the monthly notations of the local U.S. Weather Bureau office in Miami. No severe effects occurred and the storm was not mentioned in the monthly notations of the local  Weather Bureau office in .
156 miami However, its presence and that of the Great Miami hurricane, then of Category 4 intensity and in the South-Central Bahamas, caused confusion in the local press. However, its presence and that of the   hurricane, then of Category  intensity and in the  , caused confusion in the local press.
157 miami On the morning of September 17, one day before the Miami hurricane struck, the "Miami Herald" published a front-page story on the weak tropical storm in the Straits of Florida and included statements by the editors that it was not anticipated to strike Florida;  news articles on the hurricane, which was expected to deliver “destructive winds” to the area, were not published by other local newspapers until the afternoon, leaving Miami residents confused as to the extent of the danger. On the morning   ,   before the  hurricane struck, the " " published a front-page story on the weak tropical storm in the    and included statements by the editors that it was not anticipated to strike ;  news articles on the hurricane, which was expected to deliver “destructive winds” to the area, were not published by other local newspapers until the afternoon, leaving  residents confused as to the extent  the danger.
158 miami Early on September 11, as Hurricanes Four and Five remained active in the Central Atlantic, a weak tropical depression formed in the western Caribbean Sea about  east-southeast of the Swan Islands, Honduras. Early on  , as Hurricanes  and  remained active in the  , a weak tropical depression formed in the western   about  east-southeast of the  , .
159 miami Without strengthening substantially, the depression moved west-northwest for the next day and a half, passing north of the Swan Islands based upon weather reports, and then curved northward. Without strengning substantially,  depression moved west-northwest for    and a half, passing north of    based upon wear reports, and n curved northward.
160 miami On September 13, the depression gradually curved to the northeast, and on the afternoon of September 14 its center made landfall southeast of the city of Cienfuegos, Cuba. On  , the depression gradually curved to the northeast, and on the afternoon of   its center made landfall southeast of the city of , .
161 miami The cyclone then crossed the central region of Cuba, entering the Bahamian islands in the evening. The cyclone then crossed the central region of , entering the  islands in the evening.
162 miami Shortly thereafter, by 00 UTC on September 15 the depression intensified into a weak tropical storm with maximum sustained winds of , the strongest in its entire life span. Shortly thereafter, by   on   the depression intensified into a weak tropical storm with maximum sustained winds of , the strongest in its entire life span.
163 miami The cyclone then turned north, passing about  west of the Bahamian capital Nassau in the afternoon. The cyclone then turned north, passing about  west of the  capital  in the afternoon.
164 miami The weak storm then turned abruptly to the northwest, having been trapped by a building ridge, and early the next day, while centered north of Andros Island, it assumed a gradual curve to the southwest. The weak storm n turned abruptly to  northwest, having been trapped by a building ridge, and    , while centered north of  , it assumed a gradual curve to  southwest.
165 miami Late that day, it degenerated back into a tropical depression and dissipated over the Straits of Florida on September 17, as the Great Miami hurricane approached from just  to the east-southeast. Late that , it degenerated back into a tropical depression and dissipated over the Straits of  on  , as the   hurricane approached from just  to the east-southeast.
166 miami By 12 UTC on September 11—just twelve hours after the formation of the preceding cyclone—a new tropical storm formed in the Atlantic about  east of the island of Martinique, though it probably originated earlier and was undetected; operationally, the storm was not tracked until September 14. By   on  —just   after the formation of the preceding cyclone—a new tropical storm formed in the  about  east of the island of , though it probably originated earlier and was undetected; operationally, the storm was not tracked until  .
167 miami Steadily moving north of due west, the cyclone quickly became a hurricane the next day, and over the next three days, while bypassing the Greater Antilles to the north, it continued to intensify to a major hurricane, with maximum sustained winds of at least , yet few ships were near the eye with which to determine its path. Steadily moving north of due west,  cyclone quickly became a hurricane   , and over    s, while bypassing  Greater Antilles to  north, it continued to intensify to a major hurricane, with maximum sustained winds of at least , yet few ships were near  eye with which to determine its path.
168 miami On the afternoon of September 16, the cyclone peaked at , near the upper threshold of the modern-day classification Category 4, and shortly thereafter passed just  north of the island of Grand Turk, striking Mayaguana at peak intensity early the next day. On  afternoon of  ,  cyclone peaked at , near  upper threshold of  modern- classification Category , and shortly reafter passed just  north of  island of  , striking  at peak intensity    .
169 miami Continuing over the South-Central Bahamas and Andros Island on September 17–18, the cyclone, with winds of , then struck South Florida near Perrine,  south of Downtown Miami, shortly before 12 UTC on September 18, with its large eye passing over the Miami metropolitan area. Continuing over the   and   on  –, the cyclone, with winds of , then struck   near ,  south of  , shortly before   on  , with its large eye passing over the  metropolitan area.
170 miami Swiftly crossing southernmost Florida, the potent hurricane weakened slightly before entering the Gulf of Mexico near Punta Rassa in the afternoon, and its path gradually curved northwest on September 19. Swiftly crossing southernmost , the potent hurricane weakened slightly before entering the    near   in the afternoon, and its path gradually curved northwest on  .
171 miami Late on September 20, its path slowed drastically and curved west, making landfall near Perdido Beach, Alabama, with winds of  and a measured pressure of  in the calm eye. Late on  , its path slowed drastically and curved west, making landfall near  , , with winds of  and a measured pressure of  in the calm eye.
172 miami Quickly weakening thereafter, the cyclone paralleled the coasts of Alabama and Mississippi, dissipating more than two days later over Louisiana. Quickly weakening thereafter, the cyclone paralleled the coasts of  and , dissipating      over .
173 miami Throughout the Bahamas, reports of damage were relatively scarce despite the intensity with which the storm struck the region. Throughout the , reports of damage were relatively scarce despite the intensity with which the storm struck the region.
174 miami However, numerous structures were completely destroyed. However, numerous structures were completely destroyed.
175 miami Within days of the hurricane striking Miami, newspapers reported death tolls as high as 1,200, fearing catastrophic damage in the city. Within  of the hurricane striking , newspapers reported death tolls as high as , fearing catastrophic damage in the city.
176 miami This number gradually decreased as persons initially feared dead were found alive. This number gradually decreased as persons initially feared dead were found alive.
177 miami According to estimates in the past decade, the storm was responsible for 372 deaths in the Southeastern United States, 114 of which took place in Miami and at least 150 at Moore Haven, where a storm surge estimated as high as  overtopped portions of a levee on Lake Okeechobee. According to estimates in   ,  storm was responsible for  deaths in  Souastern  ,  of which took place in  and at least  at  , where a storm surge estimated as high as  overtopped portions of a levee on  .
178 miami Prior to 2003, the U.S. death toll was long listed as 243. Prior to , the  death toll was long listed as .
179 miami Many people in Miami, transients who knew little of hurricanes, perished after examining damage during the passage of the eye, unaware that the back end of the storm was approaching. Many people in , transients who knew little of hurricanes, perished after examining damage during the passage of the eye, unaware that the back end of the storm was approaching.
180 miami Flimsy structures built to house workers during the Florida land boom of the 1920s were completely leveled. Flimsy structures built to house workers during   land boom of   were completely leveled.
181 miami The hurricane partially contributed to the end of the land boom, which was in decline by early 1926. The hurricane partially contributed to the end of the land boom, which was in decline by  .
182 miami In terms of monetary losses, damage from the hurricane was estimated to be as high as $125 million ($  US$). In terms of monetary losses, damage from the hurricane was estimated to be as high as $125 million ($  US$).
183 miami Up to 4,725 structures throughout southern Florida were destroyed and 8,100 damaged, leaving at least 38,000 people homeless. Up to  structures throughout southern  were destroyed and  damaged, leaving at least  people homeless.
184 miami A storm surge of  occurred south of Miami and winds on Miami Beach were recorded at  before the anemometer blew away. A storm surge of  occurred south of  and winds on   were recorded at  before the anemometer blew away.
185 miami The lowest pressure was estimated at , the seventh most intense in a storm to strike the United States. The lowest pressure was estimated at , the  most intense in a storm to strike the  .
186 miami The storm also produced significant damage, rainfall up to , and a storm surge up to  in the Florida Panhandle. The storm also produced significant damage, rainfall up to , and a storm surge up to  in the  .
187 miami The entire state of Florida lost 35% of its grapefruit and orange crops combined, including nearly 100% losses in the Miami area. The entire state of  lost 35% of its grapefruit and orange crops combined, including nearly 100% losses in the  area.
188 miami In a study of hurricane damage statistics conducted in 2008, it was estimated that if a storm similar to that of the Miami hurricane were to occur in 2005 it would result in over $140–157 billion in damage. In a study of hurricane damage statistics conducted in , it was estimated that if a storm similar to that of the  hurricane were to occur in  it would result in over $140–  in damage.
189 miami In all, the storm caused at least 478 deaths along its path accounting for the revised toll in the U.S. since 2003. In all, the storm caused at least  deaths along its path accounting for the revised toll in the  since .
190 miami Twelve hours after the Great Miami hurricane struck Alabama, the eighth tropical storm of the season formed in the east-central Atlantic about  southwest of Horta in the Azores on September 21. after the   hurricane struck , the  tropical storm of the season formed in the east-central  about  southwest of  in the  on  .
191 miami Over the next three days, it moved north of due east and rapidly strengthened, becoming a minimal hurricane by 12 UTC on September 22 and later peaking at —equivalent to a moderately strong Category 2 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale—on the morning of September 24. Over    , it moved north of due east and rapidly strengned, becoming a minimal hurricane by   on   and later peaking at —equivalent to a moderately strong Category  hurricane on  Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale—on  morning of  4.
192 miami For about 24 hours thereafter, the cyclone briefly curved to the northeast before turning sharply to the east early on September 26. For    thereafter, the cyclone briefly curved to the northeast before turning sharply to the east early on  .
193 miami Late that day, the cyclone swerved precipitously to the north, making landfall on the island of São Miguel near Ponta Delgada at peak intensity, becoming only the first of two confirmed hurricanes to strike the Azores since records began in 1851, the other being Hurricane Hannah in 1959, another landfalling Category 2 hurricane that struck the same island. Late that , the cyclone swerved precipitously to the north, making landfall on the island of   near   at peak intensity, becoming only the  of  confirmed hurricanes to strike the  since records began in , the other being Hurricane Hannah in , another landfalling Category  hurricane that struck the same island.
194 miami Curving northwest and then south of due west, the cyclone weakened after striking São Miguel and reverted to a minimal hurricane late on September 27. Curving northwest and then south of due west, the cyclone weakened after striking   and reverted to a minimal hurricane late on  .
195 miami It gradually completed a counter-clockwise loop through the western Azores, curving due south as a tropical storm, though its cool surface temperatures and enlarged size suggest it might have been a subtropical cyclone then. It gradually completed a counter-clockwise loop through the western , curving due south as a tropical storm, though its cool surface temperatures and enlarged size suggest it might have been a subtropical cyclone then.
196 miami Just afterward, late on September 28, it hit Faial Island near Horta with sustained winds near . Just afterward, late on  , it hit   near  with sustained winds near .
197 miami Over the next two days, it moved generally south-southeast and slowly weakened, curving suddenly east-southeast beginning on September 30. Over    , it moved generally south-souast and slowly weakened, curving suddenly east-souast beginning on  .
198 miami Turning south of due east, it dissipated by 18 UTC on October 1. Turning south of due east, it dissipated by   on  .
199 miami The Cape Verde-type hurricane formed on September 6. The   hurricane formed on  .
200 miami Moving west-northwest while traversing the tropical Atlantic, the storm later passed near St. Kitts on September 14. Moving west-northwest while traversing the tropical , the storm later passed near   on  .
201 miami By September 17 it was battering the Bahamas, impacting the Turks and Caicos Islands with winds estimated at . By   it was battering the , impacting the  and   with winds estimated at .
202 miami Then, in the early morning hours of September 18, it made landfall just south of Miami between Coral Gables and South Miami as a devastating Category 4 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale. Then, in       , it made landfall just south   between   and   as a devastating Category  hurricane on  Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
203 miami The storm crossed the peninsula south of Lake Okeechobee, entered the Gulf of Mexico, and made another landfall near Mobile, Alabama as a Category 3 hurricane on September 20 before hooking westward along coastal Alabama and Mississippi, eventually dissipating on September 22 after moving inland over Louisiana. The storm crossed the peninsula south   , entered the   , and made another landfall near Mobile,  as a Category  hurricane on    hooking westward along coastal  and , eventually dissipating on   after moving inland over .
204 miami In Florida, winds on the ground were reported around  and the pressure measured at  — though all such data is suspect. In , winds on the ground were reported around  and the pressure measured at  — though all such data is suspect.
205 miami Most of the coastal inhabitants had not evacuated, partly because of short warning (a hurricane warning was issued just a few hours before landfall) and partly because the "young" city's population knew little about the danger a major hurricane posed. Most of the costl inhbitnts hd not evcuted, prtly becuse of short wrning ( hurricne wrning ws issued just    before lndfll) nd prtly becuse the "young" city's popultion knew little bout the dnger  mjor hurricne posed.
206 miami A  storm surge inundated the area, causing massive property damage and some fatalities. A  storm surge inundated the area, causing massive property damage and some fatalities.
207 miami As the eye of the hurricane crossed over Miami Beach and downtown Miami, many people believed the storm had passed. As the eye of the hurricane crossed over   and downtown , many people believed the storm had passed.
208 miami Some tried to leave the barrier islands, only to be swept off the bridges by the rear eyewall. Some tried to leave the barrier islands, only to be swept off the bridges by the rear eyewall.
209 miami "The lull lasted 35 minutes, and during that time the streets of the city became crowded with people," wrote Richard Gray, the local weather chief. "The lull lasted  , and during that time the streets of the city became crowded with people," wrote  , the local weather chief.
210 miami "As a result, many lives were lost during the second phase of the storm." "As a result, many lives were lost during the  phase of the storm."
211 miami Coastal regions between Mobile and Pensacola, Florida also suffered heavy damage from wind, rain, and storm surge, but this paled beside the news of the destruction in Miami. Coastal regions between Mobile and ,  also suffered heavy damage from wind, rain, and storm surge, but this paled beside the news of the destruction in .
212 miami According to the Red Cross there were 373 fatalities. According to the   there were  fatalities.
213 miami Other estimates vary, since there were a large number of people listed as "missing". Other estimates vary, since there were a large number of people listed as "missing".
214 miami Between 25,000 and 50,000 people were left homeless, mostly in the Miami area. Between  and  people were left homeless, mostly in the  area.
215 miami The damage from the storm was immense; few buildings in Miami or Miami Beach were left intact. The damage from the storm was immense; few buildings in  or   were left intact.
216 miami The toll for the storm was $100 million ($  USD). The toll for the storm was $100 million ($  USD).
217 miami It is estimated that if an identical storm hit in the year 2005, with modern development and prices, the storm would have caused $140–157 billion in damage. It is estimated that if an identical storm hit in   , with modern development and prices,  storm would have caused $140–  in damage.
218 miami After the hurricane, the Great Depression started in South Florida, slowing recovery. After the hurricane, the Great Depression started in  , slowing recovery.
219 miami The University of Miami, located in Coral Gables, had been founded in 1925 and opened its doors for the first time just days after the hurricane passed. The University of , located in  , had been founded in  and opened its doors for the  time just  after the hurricane passed.
220 miami The University's athletic teams were nicknamed the Hurricanes in memory of this catastrophe. The University's athletic teams were nicknamed the Hurricanes in memory of this catastrophe.
221 miami The school's mascot is Sebastian, an ibis. The school's mascot is , an ibis.
222 miami The ibis is a small white bird that can be seen around south Florida and especially on the UM campus. The ibis is a small white bird that can be seen around south  and especially on the UM campus.
223 miami An ibis was selected to represent the Hurricanes because of folklore in which it is typically the last bird to leave before a hurricane strikes and the first to return once it's gone. An ibis was selected to represent the Hurricanes because of folklore in which it is typically the last bird to leave before a hurricane strikes and the  to return  it's gone.
224 miami The "1926 Miami hurricane" (or "Great Miami Hurricane") was a Category 4 hurricane that devastated Miami in September 1926. The "  hurricane" (or "Great  Hurricane") was a Category  hurricane that devastated  in  .
225 miami The storm also caused significant damage in the Florida Panhandle, the U.S. state of Alabama, and the Bahamas. The storm also caused significant damage in the  , the  state of , and the .
226 miami The storm's enormous regional economic impact helped end the Florida land boom of the 1920s and pushed the region on an early start into the Great Depression. The storm's enormous regional economic impact helped end   land boom of   and pushed  region on an early start into  Great Depression.
227 miami Points further south along the Florida coast, such as Miami, received only a brush from the storm, resulting in rains and some light wind damage. Points further south along the  coast, such as , received only a brush from the storm, resulting in rains and some light wind damage.
228 miami Flooding was also experienced at points such as Palm Beach. Flooding was also experienced at points such as  .
229 miami Damage estimates in Florida exceeded $2.5 million. Damage estimates in  exceeded $2.5 million.
230 miami In the aftermath of the hurricane in coastal Florida, it became apparent that well-constructed buildings with shutters had suffered practically no damage from winds that caused serious structural problems to lesser buildings. In the aftermath of the hurricane in coastal , it became apparent that well-constructed buildings with shutters had suffered practically no damage from winds that caused serious structural problems to lesser buildings.
231 miami Buildings with well-constructed frames, and those made of steel, concrete, brick, or stone were largely immune to winds, and the use of shutters prevented damage to windows and the interior of the buildings. Buildings with well-constructed frames, and those made of steel, concrete, brick, or stone were largely immune to winds, and the use of shutters prevented damage to windows and the interior of the buildings.
232 miami Coming on the heels of the 1926 Miami hurricane where a similar pattern had been noticed, one lasting result of the 1928 storm was improved building codes. Coming on the heels of the   hurricane where a similar pattern had been noticed,  lasting result of the  storm was improved building codes.
233 miami Thousands of people were left homeless in Florida; property damage was estimated at $25 million ($). Thousands of people were left homeless in ; property damage was estimated at $25 million ($).
234 miami It is estimated if a similar storm were to strike as of the year 2003, it would cause $18.7 billion in damages. It is estimated if a similar storm were to strike as of   , it would cause $18.7 billion in damages.
235 miami The cyclone remains one of three Atlantic hurricanes to strike the southern mainland of Florida with a central pressure below 940 mbar (27.76 inHg), the others being the 1926 Miami hurricane and Hurricane Andrew of 1992. The cycl remains  of   hurricanes to strike the southern mainland of  with a central pressure below  mbar ( inHg), the others being the   hurricane and   of .
236 miami Coastal damage in Florida near the point of landfall was catastrophic. Coastal damage in  near the point of landfall was catastrophic.
237 miami Miami, well south of the point of landfall, escaped with very little damage; Hollywood and Fort Lauderdale suffered only slight damages. , well south of the point of landfall, escaped with very little damage;  and   suffered only slight damages.
238 miami In Fort Lauderdale, numerous power lines and telephone wires were downed. In  , numerous power lines and telephone wires were downed.
239 miami Northward, from Pompano Beach to Jupiter, buildings suffered serious damage from the heavy winds and 10 ft (3 m) storm surge, which was heaviest in the vicinity of Palm Beach; total coastal damages were estimated as "several million" dollars. Northward, from   to , buildings suffered serious damage from the heavy winds and  ft ( m) storm surge, which was heaviest in the vicinity of  ; total coastal damages were estimated as "several " dollars.
240 miami In West Palm Beach, more than 1,711 homes were destroyed, while the Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse's mortar was reportedly "squeezed ...like toothpaste" between the bricks during the storm, swaying the tower  off the base. In   , more than  homes were destroyed, while the   's mortar was reportedly "squeezed ...like toothpaste" between the bricks during the storm, swaying the tower  off the base.
241 miami Because of well-issued hurricane warnings, residents were prepared for the storm, and the number of lives lost in the coastal Palm Beach area was only 26. Because of well-issued hurricane warnings, residents were prepared for the storm, and the number of lives lost in the coastal   area was only .
242 miami Inland, the hurricane wreaked much more widespread destruction along the more heavily populated coast of Lake Okeechobee. Inland, the hurricane wreaked much more widespread destruction along the more heavily populated coast of  .
243 miami Residents had been warned to evacuate the low ground earlier in the day, but after the hurricane did not arrive on schedule, many thought it had missed and returned to their homes. Residents had been warned to evacuate  low ground earlier in  , but after  hurricane did not arrive on schedule, many thought it had missed and returned to ir homes.
244 miami When the worst of the storm crossed the lake—with winds measured on the ground at around 140 mph (225 km/h)—the south-blowing wind caused a storm surge to overflow the small dike that had been built at the south end of the lake. When the worst of the storm crossed the lake—with winds measured on the ground at around  mph ( km/h)—the south-blowing wind caused a storm surge to overflow the small dike that had been built at the south end of the lake.
245 miami The resulting flood covered an area of hundreds of square miles with water that in some places was over 20 ft (6 m) deep. The resulting flood covered an area of hundreds of square miles with water that in some places was over  ft ( m) deep.
246 miami Houses were floated off of their foundations and dashed to pieces against any obstacle they encountered. Houses were floated off of their foundations and dashed to pieces against any obstacle they encountered.
247 miami Most survivors and bodies were washed out into the Everglades where many of the bodies were never found. Most survivors and bodies were washed out into the  where many of the bodies were never found.
248 miami As the rear eyewall passed over the area, the flood reversed itself, breaking the dikes along the northern coast of the lake and causing a similar but smaller flood. As the rear eyewall passed over the area, the flood reversed itself, breaking the dikes along the northern coast of the lake and causing a similar but smaller flood.
249 miami Floodwaters persisted for several weeks, greatly impeding attempts to clean up the devastation. Floodwaters persisted for  , greatly impeding attempts to clean up the devastation.
250 miami Burial services were quickly overwhelmed, and many of the bodies were placed into mass graves. Burial services were quickly overwhelmed, and many of the bodies were placed into mass graves.
251 miami Around 75% of the fatalities were migrant farm workers, making identification of both dead and missing bodies very difficult; as a result of this, the count of the dead is not very accurate. Around 75% of the fatalities were migrant farm workers, making identification of both dead and missing bodies very difficult; as a result of this, the count of the dead is not very accurate.
252 miami The Red Cross estimated the number of fatalities as 1,836, which was taken as the official count by the National Weather Service for many years (and exactly equal to the official count for Hurricane Katrina). The   estimated the number of fatalities as , which was taken as the official count by the    for many  (and exactly equal to the official count for Hurricane Katrina).
253 miami Older sources usually list 3,411 as the hurricane's total count of fatalities, including the Caribbean. Older sources usually list  as the hurricane's total count of fatalities, including the .
254 miami However, in 2003 the U.S. death count was revised as "at least" 2,500, making the Okeechobee hurricane the second-deadliest natural disaster in United States history behind the Galveston Hurricane of 1900. However, in  the  death count was revised as "at least" , making the  hurricane the second-deadliest natural disaster in   history behind the  Hurricane of .
255 miami A mass grave at the Port Mayaca Cemetery east of Port Mayaca contains the bodies of 1,600 victims of the hurricane. A mass grave at the    east of   contains the bodies of  victims of the hurricane.
256 miami In Miami, a reading of 998 mbar (29.41 inHg) reading was recorded as the hurricane made landfall, and wind speeds between 90 and 100 mph (150 to 157 km/h) were recorded in Everglades City. In , a reading of  mbar ( inHg) reading was recorded as the hurricane made lfall,  wind speeds between    mph ( to  km/h) were recorded in  .
257 miami The hurricane spawned three tornadoes that touched down in Fort Lauderdale, Miami, and two other towns, with the Fort Lauderdale tornado being most destructive. The hurricane spawned  tornadoes that touched down in  , , and  other towns, with the   tornado being most destructive.
258 miami The tornado damaged a four story hotel, a railway office building and several cottages before dissipating 30 minutes after its formation. The tornado damaged a  story hotel, a railway office building and several cottages before dissipating   after its formation.
259 miami In southwestern Florida, there was damage to orange and grapefruit crops. In southwestern , there was damage to orange and grapefruit crops.
260 miami Three people were killed after ignoring warnings and trying to ride out the storm. people were killed after ignoring warnings and trying to ride out the storm.
261 miami While moving over Saint Christopher, the storm killed six people. While moving over Saint , the storm killed  people.
262 miami Heavy rain was reported throughout the Virgin Islands. Heavy rain was reported throughout the  .
263 miami The hurricane caused the drowning of one person in the Bahamas, and moderate winds produced severe structural damage to the buildings in the archipelago. The hurricane caused the drowning of  person in the , and moderate winds produced severe structural damage to the buildings in the archipelago.
264 miami In Florida, the National Weather Bureau issued storm warnings between Miami to Titusville, while Governor David Sholtz issued a mandatory evacuation for 4,200 residents in vulnerable areas around Lake Okeechobee. In , the    issued storm warnings between  to , while Governor   issued a mandatory evacuation for  residents in vulnerable areas around  .
265 miami Damage in Florida was minimal, limited to minor crops, roofs, and signs. Damage in  was minimal, limited to minor crops, roofs, and signs.
266 miami In southern Texas, the hurricane produced moderate damage of $500,000 (1933 USD, $  USD), including disrupted telephone and telegraph lines. In southern , the hurricane produced moderate damage of $500,000 ( USD, $  USD), including disrupted telephone and telegraph lines.
267 miami The hurricane produced high tides along the coast of Texas, covering parts of South Padre Island, and heavy rains in northern Mexico caused heavy damage. The hurricane produced high tides along the coast of , covering parts of   , and heavy rains in northern  caused heavy damage.
268 miami In Cuba, people boarded up numerous buildings, and emergency workers assisted authorities in spreading the word about the impending storm; residents in vulnerable areas evacuated to shelters on higher ground. In , people boarded up numerous buildings, and emergency workers assisted authorities in spreading the word about the impending storm; residents in vulnerable areas evacuated to shelters on higher ground.
269 miami The hurricane's powerful winds destroyed several houses in Camagüey, and heavy rainfall overflowed numerous rivers in low-lying districts. The hurricane's powerful winds destroyed several houses in , and heavy rainfall overflowed numerous rivers in low-lying districts.
270 miami The winds damaged and disrupted telephone and telegraph lines and injured a few people in Havana. The winds damaged and disrupted telephone and telegraph lines and injured a few people in .
271 miami Despite government orders for police to kill any looters, large-scale looting occurred in Havana after the storm. Despite government orders for police to kill any looters, large-scale looting occurred in  after the storm.
272 miami Two looters were shot to death, and a third was injured. looters were shot to death, and a  was injured.
273 miami Two civilians were also wounded by snipers who fired to disperse thieves. civilians were also wounded by snipers who fired to disperse thieves.
274 miami Residents in southeast Florida boarded up for the storm while the National Weather Bureau issued storm warnings for portions of the coastline. Residents in southeast  boarded up for the storm while the    issued storm warnings for portions of the coastline.
275 miami The hurricane produced strong winds and rain in the Florida Keys and extreme southern Florida, but damage was minimal. The hurricane produced strong winds and rain in the   and extreme southern , but damage was minimal.
276 miami In northwest Miami, the hurricane spawned a tornado that damaged three houses and injured two. In northwest , the hurricane spawned a tornado that damaged  houses and injured .
277 miami Damage in the Bahamas is unknown. Damage in the  is unknown.
278 miami On October 1, a tropical storm developed off the northeast coast of Nicaragua. On  , a tropical storm developed off the northeast coast of .
279 miami It moved slowly northward and steadily intensified, becoming a hurricane on October 3 just west of Jamaica. It moved slowly northward and steadily intensified, becoming a hurricane on   just west of .
280 miami The hurricane turned to the north-northwest and hit the Cuban province of La Habana with winds of 110 mph (175 km/h) on October 4. The hurricane passed over Havana and turned to the northeast and strengthened, becoming a major hurricane as it moved south of Miami, Florida. The hurricane turned to the north-northwest and hit the  province of La Habana with winds of  mph ( km/h) on  .The hurricane passed over  and turned to the northeast and strengthened, becoming a major hurricane as it moved south of , .
281 miami The hurricane reached a peak intensity of 125 mph (205 km/h) while passing through the Bahamas on October 6. The hurricane reached a peak intensity of  mph ( km/h) while passing through the  on  .
282 miami The hurricane weakened as it accelerated to the northeast, and it became extratropical on October 8 to the south of Nova Scotia. The hurricane weakened as it accelerated to the northeast, and it became extratropical on   to the south of  .
283 miami It paralleled the Nova Scotia coast, turned to the east-southeast, and lost its tropical characteristics on October 9 over the open north Atlantic Ocean. It paralleled the   coast, turned to the east-southeast, and lost its tropical characteristics on   over the open north  .
284 miami On September 3, the first tropical cyclone watches and warnings for Florida were released around 4 p.m. (2100 UTC); storm warnings were issued in Miami, while hurricane warnings encompassed the coast from north of Miami to Melbourne. On  , the  tropical cyclone watches and warnings for  were released around 4 p.m. ( UTC); storm warnings were issued in , while hurricane warnings encompassed the coast from north of  to .
285 miami Additionally, storm warnings extended from north of Melbourne to Jacksonville. Additionally, storm warnings extended from north of  to .
286 miami Storm warnings, which were issued around 10 p.m. (0300 UTC), were also disseminated from Key West to Cedar Key. Storm warnings, which were issued around 10 p.m. ( UTC), were also disseminated from Key West to Cedar Key.
287 miami The threat of the storm prompted the United States Weather Bureau to issue southeast storm warnings for Key West, Florida. The threat of the storm prompted the     to issue southeast storm warnings for Key West, .
288 miami Light rainfall from the storm was reported in Miami. Light rainfall from the storm was reported in .
289 miami Before the storm made its final landfall, the Weather Bureau issued northeast storm warnings from Brownsville to Port O'Connor, Texas on July 5. Before the storm made its final landfall, the   issued northeast storm warnings from  to  ,  on  .
290 miami That same day, a hurricane warning was also issued for Brownsville. That same , a hurricane warning was also issued for .
291 miami The hurricane ultimately struck a sparsely-populated area of northeastern Mexico, causing several deaths and heavy damage in the country. The hurricane ultimately struck a sparsely-populated area of northeastern , causing several deaths and heavy damage in the country.
292 miami High winds downed trees and power lines, and damaged the roofs of several houses. High winds downed trees and power lines, and damaged the roofs of several houses.
293 miami Along the beach, high tides damaged coastal structures and flooded some cars. Along the beach, high tides damaged coastal structures and flooded some cars.
294 miami The effects extended into Texas, and Brazos Island, Port Isabel, and Port Aransas were flooded due to the storm surge. The effects extended into , and  ,  , and   were flooded due to the storm surge.
295 miami High tides damaged ten piers in Port Isabel, and there was damage to buildings along the coast. High tides damaged  piers in  , and there was damage to buildings along the coast.
296 miami The storm damaged the cotton and fruit crops in south Texas from high winds and rainfall. The storm damaged the cotton and fruit crops in south  from high winds and rainfall.
297 miami Rains from the storm ended an extended drought in the Brownsville area. Rains from the storm ended an extended drought in the  area.
298 miami A rare early November hurricane strike in the Miami area, this storm began as a tropical storm near Bermuda on October 30. A rare   hurricane strike in the  area, this storm began as a tropical storm near  on  .
299 miami Moving westward, the storm strengthened to a  Category 1 hurricane on November 1 while initially threatening the North Carolina coastline. Moving westward, the storm strengthened to a  Category  hurricane on   while initially threatening the   coastline.
300 miami The system began to turn southwest on November 2, however, while continuing to strengthen to its peak of , while a ship recorded a minimal pressure of 980 mbar. The system began to turn southwest on  , however, while continuing to strengthen to its peak of , while a ship recorded a minimal pressure of  mbar.
301 miami The hurricane continued moving slowly south-southwest while weakening slightly, eventually making landfall near Miami Beach, Florida, as a  minimal hurricane on November 4 with a measured pressure of 973 mbar at landfall. The hurricane continued moving slowly south-southwest while weakening slightly, eventually making landfall near  , , as a  minimal hurricane on   with a measured pressure of  mbar at landfall.
302 miami The system crossed the southern end of the Florida peninsula shortly thereafter, eventually entering the southeast Gulf of Mexico as a minimal hurricane near the Dry Tortugas on November 5. The system crossed the southern end  the  peninsula shortly thereafter, eventually entering the     as a minimal hurricane near the Dry Tortugas on  .
303 miami The hurricane then weakened into a tropical storm while beginning a slow clockwise loop in the eastern Gulf, eventually curving back east while weakening to a depression just west of St. Petersburg late on November 7. The system dissipated just offshore on November 8. The hurricane then weakened into a tropical storm while beginning a slow clockwise loop in the eastern Gulf, eventually curving back east while weakening to a depression just west of   late on  .The system dissipated just offshore on  .
304 miami It had killed 19 people and caused upwards of $5.5 million in uninflated damage. It had killed  people and caused upwards of $5.5 million in uninflated damage.
305 miami The hurricane's unusual approach toward Florida and late arrival earned it the nickname of the Yankee Hurricane. The hurricane's unusual approach toward  and late arrival earned it the nickname of the Yankee Hurricane.
306 miami The "1935 Atlantic hurricane season" ran from June 16 through October 31, 1935. The "  hurricane season" ran from      .
307 miami The 1935 season featured below average activity, but it was eventful. The  season featured below average activity, but it was eventful.
308 miami A Category 1 hurricane in the Caribbean killed an estimated 2,150 people in the Greater Antilles and Central America. A Category  hurricane in the  killed an estimated 2,50 people in the Greater Antilles and  .
309 miami A Category 3 storm hit central Cuba and grazed Miami. A Category  storm hit central  and grazed .
310 miami An extratropical hurricane hit Newfoundland. An extratropical hurricane hit .
311 miami The third tropical cyclone of the season struck the Florida Keys in southern Florida as a Category 5 hurricane; it remains the strongest landfalling hurricane in the United States (and anywhere in the Atlantic basin). The  tropical cyclone of the season struck the   in southern  as a Category  hurricane; it remains the strongest landfalling hurricane in the   (and anywhere in the  basin).
312 miami A rare November hurricane also affected the Miami—Fort Lauderdale area. A rare  hurricane also affected the —  area.
313 miami The "1935 Labor Day Hurricane" was the strongest tropical cyclone of the 1935 Atlantic hurricane season, and one of the most intense hurricanes to make landfall in the United States in recorded history. The "   Hurricane" was the strongest tropical cycl of the   hurricane season, and  of the most intense hurricanes to make landfall in the   in recorded history.
314 miami The second tropical cyclone, second hurricane, and second major hurricane of the season, the Labor Day Hurricane was the first of three Category 5 hurricanes at landfall that the United States endured during the 20th Century (the other two being 1969's Hurricane Camille and 1992's Hurricane Andrew). The  tropical cyclone,  hurricane, and  major hurricane of  season,    Hurricane was   of  Category  hurricanes at landfall that    endured during    ( or  being 's Hurricane Camille and 's Hurricane Andrew).
315 miami After forming as a weak tropical storm east of the Bahamas on August 29, it slowly proceeded westward and became a hurricane on September 1. After forming as a weak tropical storm east of the  on  , it slowly proceeded westward and became a hurricane on  .
316 miami As Labor Day approached, hurricane warnings went up over the Keys. approached, hurricane warnings went up over the Keys.
317 miami A train was dispatched from Miami to evacuate the Works Progress Administration (WPA) construction workers, consisting almost entirely of Bonus Army veterans and their families, from the ramshackle camps they were living in Windley Key and Lower Matecumbe Key. A train was dispatched from  to evacuate the    (WPA) construction workers, consisting almost entirely of Bonus Army veterans and their families, from the ramshackle camps they were living in Windley Key and Lower Matecumbe Key.
318 miami The train was almost entirely swept away before reaching the camps late on September 2. When it finally arrived in Upper Metecumbe Key only the engine survived the winds and wall of water that swept through the area. The train was almost entirely swept away before reaching the camps late on  .When it finally arrived in Upper Metecumbe Key only the engine survived the winds and wall of water that swept through the area.
319 miami The hurricane struck the Upper Keys on Labor Day, Monday, September 2. The storm continued northwest along the Florida west coast, weakening before its second landfall near Cedar Key, Florida on September 4. (If information is found on diameter please write.) The hurricane struck the      Mday  .The storm continued north along the   , weakening before its  landfall near  ,  on  .(If information is found on diameter please write.)
320 miami The United States Coast Guard and other state and federal agencies organized evacuation and relief efforts. The     and other state and federal agencies organized evacuation and relief efforts.
321 miami Boats and airplanes carried injured survivors to Miami. Boats and airplanes carried injured survivors to .
322 miami The railroad was never rebuilt, but temporary bridges and ferry landings were under construction as soon as materials arrived. The railroad was never rebuilt, but temporary bridges and ferry landings were under construction as soon as materials arrived.
323 miami Within a few years a roadway (Overseas Highway) linked the Keys to the mainland. Within   yers  rodwy (Overses Highwy) linked the Keys to the minlnd.
324 miami The storm caused wind and flood damage along the Florida panhandle and into Georgia. The storm caused wind and flood damage along the  panhandle and into .
325 miami The main transportation route linking the Keys to mainland Florida was one railroad line, the Florida Overseas Railroad portion of the Florida East Coast Railway. The main transportation route linking the Keys to mainland  was  railroad line, the  Overseas Railroad portion of the    .
326 miami A 10-car evacuation train, sent from Homestead, was washed off the track by the storm surge and high winds on Upper Matecumbe Key. A 10-car evacuation train, sent from Homestead, was washed off the track by the storm surge and high winds on Upper Matecumbe Key.
327 miami Only the locomotive remained on the rails, and was barged back to Miami several months later. Only the locomotive remained on the rails, and was barged back to    .
328 miami The National Weather Service estimated 408 deaths from the hurricane. The    estimated  deaths from the hurricane.
329 miami Bodies were recovered as far away as Flamingo and Cape Sable on the southwest tip of the Florida mainland. Bodies were recovered as far away as  and   on the southwest tip of the  mainland.
330 miami The "Yankee Hurricane of 1935" was a rare Category 2 hurricane that affected the Bahamas and South Florida in November. The "Yankee Hurricane of " was a rare Category  hurricane that affected the  and   in .
331 miami It remains the only tropical cyclone to affect Miami from the northeast in November. It remains the only tropical cyclone to affect  from the northeast in .
332 miami The sixth tropical cyclone and fifth hurricane of the 1935 Atlantic hurricane season, it developed 227 miles (366 km) east of Bermuda. The  tropical cyclone and  hurricane of the   hurricane season, it developed  miles ( km) east of .
333 miami It strengthened to a hurricane on November 1, initially posing a threat to the Carolinas. It strengthened to a hurricane on  , initially posing a threat to the .
334 miami Subsequently, the cyclone turned southwest. Subsequently, the cyclone turned southwest.
335 miami It attained its peak intensity on November 3, and it made landfall near Miami Beach on November 4. The hurricane's unusual approach toward Florida and late arrival earned it the nickname of the Yankee Hurricane. It attained its peak intensity on  , and it made landfall near   on  .The hurricane's unusual approach toward  and late arrival earned it the nickname of the Yankee Hurricane.
336 miami The cyclone produced winds of 60 mph (95 km/h) on Grand Bahama. The cyclone produced winds of  mph ( km/h) on  .
337 miami The duration of hurricane force winds ranged from 1–3 hours in the Abaco Islands, and five sponge fishing vessels were lost due to the hurricane. The duration of hurricane force winds ranged from –  in the  , and  sponge fishing vessels were lost due to the hurricane.
338 miami The cyclone caused 14 deaths in the islands. The cyclone caused  deaths in the islands.
339 miami In Fort Lauderdale, winds unroofed several homes, and canals overflowed. In  , winds unroofed several homes, and canals overflowed.
340 miami In South Florida, the hurricane dismantled communication lines, and "telegraph companies relayed" messages via Jacksonville and Atlanta. In  , the hurricane dismantled communication lines, and "telegraph companies relayed" messages via  and .
341 miami High waves flooded Miami Beach. High waves flooded  .
342 miami Ten feet (3.5 m) of the Miami Beach causeway was eroded, and police halted traffic between Miami Beach and the mainland. feet ( m) of the   causeway was eroded, and police halted traffic between   and the mainland.
343 miami The death toll in Florida was low because of well executed warnings and advisories. The death toll in  was low because of well executed warnings and advisories.
344 miami Winds shattered numerous plate glass windows in Miami's business district, while signs, roofing materials, and vegetation littered streets. Winds shattered numerous plate glass windows in 's business district, while signs, roofing materials, and vegetation littered streets.
345 miami 50 homes lost their roofs in Hollywood and Dania, and the oceanfront boardwalk was destroyed. homes lost their roofs in  and , and the oceanfront boardwalk was destroyed.
346 miami Precipitation damaged equipment at the Hollywood Beach Hotel, where many windows were broken. Precipitation damaged equipment at the   , where many windows were broken.
347 miami Construction standards were improved in the aftermath of the 1928 Okeechobee Hurricane, reducing damages in subsequent storms. Construction standards were improved in the aftermath of the  Okeechobee Hurricane, reducing damages in subsequent storms.
348 miami 35 people were treated for injuries at local hospitals. people were treated for injuries at local hospitals.
349 miami Southeastern Miami was flooded by three feet (915 mm) of water. was flooded by  feet ( mm) of water.
350 miami The hurricane produced light rainfall in Miami that peaked at 4.04 inches (102.5 mm). The hurricane produced light rainfall in  that peaked at  inches ( mm).
351 miami Five deaths were reported in Florida. deaths were reported in .
352 miami Total damages in Florida reached $5,500,000 in the Miami–Fort Lauderdale area. Total damages in  reached $5,500,000 in the –  area.
353 miami Initially, the cyclone moved westward. Initially, the cyclone moved westward.
354 miami On November 1, the storm strengthened to a Category 1 hurricane, and it attained peak winds of 80 mph (130 km/h). On  , the storm strengthened to a Category  hurricane, and it attained peak winds of  mph (30 km/h).
355 miami The tropical cyclone temporarily threatened the Carolinas. The tropical cyclone temporarily threatened the .
356 miami On November 2, the hurricane reached its closest approach to Cape Hatteras; the center was located less than 145 miles (230 km/h) off the coast. On  , the hurricane reached its closest approach to  ; the center was located less than  miles (30 km/h) off the coast.
357 miami The cyclone's wind field remained narrow, and Hatteras recorded peak gusts of 40 mph (65 km/h). The cyclone's wind field remained narrow, and  recorded peak gusts of  mph ( km/h).
358 miami The cyclone turned south, under the influence of northerly winds from a high pressure system. The cyclone turned south, under the influence of northerly winds from a high pressure system.
359 miami On November 3, a ship reported a minimum pressure of 964 mbar (28.48 inHg) north of the Abaco Islands. On  , a ship reported a minimum pressure of  mbar ( inHg) north of the  .
360 miami However, this value remains unofficial, pending reanalysis. However, this value remains unofficial, pending reanalysis.
361 miami On November 4, the hurricane, with maximum sustained winds of 75 mph (120 km/h), made landfall north of Miami Beach near the present location of Bal Harbour, Florida. On  , the hurricane, with maximum sustained winds of  mph ( km/h), made landfall north of   near the  location of  , .
362 miami The hurricane's lowest central pressure in Florida was recorded at 973 mbar (28.73 inHg) in Miami, Florida. The hurricane's lowest central pressure in  was recorded at  mbar ( inHg) in , .
363 miami Shops and residences were "boarded up" in Nassau. Shops and residences were "boarded up" in .
364 miami Precautionary hurricane signals were hoisted along the Florida east coast from Titusville to Miami, and the center was expected to make landfall between Miami and West Palm Beach. Precautionary hurricane signals were hoisted along the  east coast from  to , and the center was expected to make landfall between  and   .
365 miami Later, hurricane warnings were issued from Palm Beach to Naples. Later, hurricane warnings were issued from   to .
366 miami 200 men were evacuated from the Snake Creek area in the upper Florida Keys. men were evacuated from the   area in the upper  .
367 miami Workers in the Florida Keys were transported to concentration points in Miami and Homestead. Workers in the   were transported to concentration points in  and Homestead.
368 miami Maritime interests in the Gulf of Mexico were also warned, though the cyclone's remnants remained off the west coast of Florida. Maritime interests in the    were also warned, though the cyclone's remnants remained f the west coast  .
369 miami On June 9, a tropical storm made landfall on the Pacific coast of Guatemala. On  , a tropical storm made landfall on the  coast of .
370 miami It moved northeastward across Central America, and entered the western Caribbean Sea on June 11. It moved northeastward across  , and entered the western   on  .
371 miami The storm quickly re-organized, and again developed into a tropical storm on June 12. The storm quickly re-organized, and again developed into a tropical storm on  .
372 miami It moved north-northeastward, resulting in light winds as it paralleled the eastern coasts of Belize and the Yucatan Peninsula. It moved north-northeastward, resulting in light winds as it paralleled the eastern coasts of  and the  .
373 miami After reaching the Gulf of Mexico with peak winds of , the storm turned to the northeast, then to the east. After reaching the    with peak winds  , the storm turned to the northeast, then to the east.
374 miami On June 15, the tropical storm made landfall about  to the south of Fort Myers, Florida, and after crossing the state it passed over Miami before entering the Atlantic Ocean. On  , the tropical storm made landfall about  to the south of  , , and after crossing the state it passed over  before entering the  .
375 miami It weakened as it accelerated northeastward through the Bahamas, and on June 17 the system dissipated to the north of Bermuda. It weakened as it accelerated northeastward through the , and on   the system dissipated to the north of .
376 miami While crossing Central America, the storm produced heavy rainfall. While crossing  , the storm produced heavy rainfall.
377 miami In southern Florida, winds from the storm ranged from  to a peak of  in Miami. In southern , winds from the storm ranged from  to a peak of  in .
378 miami The storm produced heavy rainfall in southern Florida, ranging from 8 to 15 inches (200 to 380 mm). The srm produced heavy rainfall in southern , ranging from    inches (  30 mm).
379 miami The rainfall caused flooding of highways and lowlands, drowned several livestock, and some damage. The rainfall caused flooding of highways and lowlands, drowned several livestock, and some damage.
380 miami The storm caused three indirect deaths when a Coast Guard airplane crashed in Tampa Bay while in search of small boats. The storm caused  indirect deaths when a   airplane crashed in   while in search of small boats.
381 miami No deaths were reported in the region, although minor damage was inflicted on communication lines and homes and several injuries were reported. No deaths were reported in the region, although minor damage was inflicted on communication lines and homes and several injuries were reported.
382 miami Several communities lost electricity. Several communities lost electricity.
383 miami Some hospitals were left without power, forcing the delivery of six babies by candlelight. Some hospitals were left without power, forcing the delivery of  babies by candlelight.
384 miami The storm injured seven people in the Miami area, including five firefighters who were injured "as they fought a blaze fanned by the high winds" of the hurricane. The storm injured  people in the  area, including  firefighters who were injured "as they fought a blaze fanned by the high winds" of the hurricane.
385 miami As the hurricane tracked inland, it passed over the Everglades, producing winds of . As the hurricane tracked inland, it passed over the , producing winds of .
386 miami Storm surge in the region triggered foot-deep flooding of some streets in local towns. Storm surge in the region triggered foot-deep flooding of some streets in local towns.
387 miami Docks and fishing equipment suffered extensive damage in the region. Docks and fishing equipment suffered extensive damage in the region.
388 miami As the hurricane passed offshore, winds reached  near Tampa Bay. As the hurricane passed offshore, winds reached  near  .
389 miami The storm also grounded a fishing schooner from Cuba off the coast of Collier County, Florida. The storm also grounded a fishing schooner from  off the coast of  , .
390 miami Although no one was injured, members of the schooner crew were detained by immigration authorities. Although no  was injured, members of the schor crew were detained by immigration authorities.
391 miami On making landfall, the storm generated high winds at the Fowey Rocks Light, although they were below hurricane force. On making landfall, the storm generated high winds at the Fowey Rocks Light, although they were below hurricane force.
392 miami A peak wind gust of  was reported at Dinner Key with sustained winds up to . A peak wind gust of  was reported at Dinner Key with sustained winds up to .
393 miami Unusually little rain fell in association with the storm;  of precipitation was reported in Miami, while locations closer to the center of the cyclone received less than . Unusually little rain fell in association with the storm;  of precipitation was reported in , while locations closer to the center of the cyclone received less than .
394 miami The light rainfall was evident throughout southeastern Florida, except for the Florida Keys, where thunderstorms enhanced the precipitation. The light rainfall was evident throughout southeastern , except for the  , where thunderstorms enhanced the precipitation.
395 miami This aspect of the storm was considered highly unusual, as most tropical cyclones are characterized by heavy rainfall. This aspect of the storm was considered highly unusual, as most tropical cyclones are characterized by heavy rainfall.
396 miami According to one study, the unusual precipitation patterns can be attributed to one of two possible conditions: "the air might have been too dry", or "the horizontal convergence of air might have been insufficient to produce a large enough transport of moisture upwards". According to  study, the unusual precipitation patterns can be attributed to  of  possible conditions: "the air might have been too dry", or "the horizontal convergence of air might have been insufficient to produce a large enough transport of moisture upwards".
397 miami The intense winds blew salt water several miles inland; due to the lack of rainfall, the salt burned vegetation throughout the region. The intense winds blew salt water several miles inland; due to the lack of rainfall, the salt burned vegetation throughout the region.
398 miami The high winds brought down trees and utility poles and shattered some windows in Dade County. The high winds brought down trees and utility poles and shattered some windows in  .
399 miami Local chapters of the American Red Cross organized first-aid stations and shelters; transportation was provided to those who were unable to reach the shelters. Local chapters of the    organized first-aid stations and shelters; transportation was provided to those who were unable to reach the shelters.
400 miami In advance of the storm, Pan American World Airways suspended flights departing from and arriving at Miami and redirected them to Havana, Cuba. In advance of the storm,     suspended flights departing from and arriving at  and redirected them to , .
401 miami The United States Navy also prepared its bases in the Florida Keys for the arrival of the storm by securing boats to piers and canceling all shore leaves, while the United States Army Air Corps moved its planes from Morrison Field to a safer location inland. The    also prepared its bases in the   for the arrival of the storm by securing boats to piers and canceling all shore leaves, while the      moved its planes from   to a safer location inland.
402 miami The state of Florida stockpiled food for those affected by the storm, establishing depots in West Palm Beach, Miami, and Fort Myers, and the Governor of Florida, Spessard Holland, ordered state agencies to prepare for relief work. The state of  stockpiled food for those affected by the storm, establishing depots in   , , and  , and the Governor of ,  , ordered state agencies to prepare for relief work.
403 miami A detachment of officers from the Florida Highway Patrol was sent to Miami and patrolled along highways to provide gasoline to motorists evacuating the storm. A detachment of officers from the    was sent to  and patrolled along highways to provide gasoline to motorists evacuating the storm.
404 miami The state also opened all of the school buildings in Dade County as emergency shelters. The state also opened all of the school buildings in   as emergency shelters.
405 miami During the days before the storm's arrival in Florida, the Weather Bureau issued 40 tropical cyclone-related advisories. During   before  storm's arrival in ,  Wear  issued  tropical cyclone-related advisories.
406 miami Extensive preparations that resulted in a low loss of life and property were attributed to the warnings. Extensive preparations that resulted in a low loss of life and property were attributed to the warnings.
407 miami In southern Florida, residents boarded up homes and businesses, and sought shelter in large structures. In southern , residents boarded up homes and businesses, and sought shelter in large structures.
408 miami Hurricane parties took place in bars and hotel rooms, while some residents sat in hotel lobbies, listening to radio broadcasts. Hurricane parties took place in bars and hotel rooms, while some residents sat in hotel lobbies, listening to radio broadcasts.
409 miami In Miami, stores sold out of various essentials—including bread and butter—as people prepared for the storm. In , stores sold out of various essentials—including bread and butter—as people prepared for the storm.
410 miami Evacuations were recommended from Homestead to Key West, and three Coast Guard planes dropped warnings to boats near the Florida coast. Evacuations were recommended from Homestead to  , and    planes dropped warnings to boats near the  coast.
411 miami The Civilian Conservation Corps also evacuated 150 of its workers from West Summerland Key to Key West. The    also evacuated  of its workers from West Summerland Key to Key West.
412 miami On October 3, the first indications of a tropical system were observed  to the north of the Virgin Islands. On  , the  indications of a tropical system were observed  to the north of the  .
413 miami The next day, morning observations confirmed the presence of a circulation center, and on October 5 the storm tracked through the Bahamas and passed near Nassau. observations confirmed the presence of a circulation center and on   the storm tracked through the  and passed near .
414 miami At the time, the storm was found to be a compact, well-developed hurricane. At the time, the storm was found to be a compact, well-developed hurricane.
415 miami The hurricane's lowest recorded barometric pressure of 964 mb was reported on Cat Island. The hurricane's lowest recorded barometric pressure of  mb was reported on Cat Island.
416 miami The storm moved west-northwestward and attained peak winds of  on October 6; that same day, it made landfall  south of Miami, Florida. The storm moved west-northwestward and attained peak winds of  on  ; that same , it made landfall  south of , .
417 miami Maintaining a small size, the hurricane moved through the Everglades, passing between Everglades City and Fort Myers. Maintaining a small size, the hurricane moved through the , passing between   and  .
418 miami Along the southern shore of Lake Okeechobee, winds gusted to ; barometric pressure there fell to 995 mb. Along the southern shore of  , winds gusted to ; barometric pressure there fell to  mb.
419 miami 58 warnings and advisories were issued by the U.S. Weather Bureau during the nine day period when the storm impacted the western Caribbean islands and United States. warnings and advisories were issued by     during    period when  storm impacted  western  islands and  .
420 miami In Miami, watches and warnings were broadcast via microphones at two to three-hour intervals when the hurricane threatened the state. In , watches and warnings were broadcast via microphones at  to  intervals when the hurricane threatened the state.
421 miami The Red Cross reported 35,000 people were sheltered during the storm, which accounted for a small portion of those whom evacuated. The   reported  people were sheltered during the storm, which accounted for a small portion of those whom evacuated.
422 miami 150 small vessels were secured in Key West, while operational Army and Navy planes were transferred from Florida to safer airfields. small vessels were secured in  , while operational  and  planes were transferred from  to safer airfields.
423 miami In Cuba, communications were severed on the Isles of Pines, though Havana received ample warnings and was well prepared for the storm. In , communications were severed on the Isles of , though  received ample warnings and was well prepared for the storm.
424 miami A hurricane was first detected on September 9, northeast of the Lesser Antilles. A hurricane was  detected on  , northeast of the Lesser Antilles.
425 miami It likely developed from a tropical wave several days before. It likely developed from a tropical wave   before.
426 miami It moved west-northwestward, and steadily intensified to a  major hurricane on the 12th, northeast of the Bahamas. It moved west-northwestward, and steadily intensified to a  major hurricane on the , northeast of the .
427 miami Around this time, the Miami Hurricane Warning Office designated this storm "The Great Atlantic Hurricane" to emphasize its intensity and size, which appears to be the first time a name was designated by the office which evolved into the National Hurricane Center. Around this time, the     designated this storm "The Great Atlantic " to emphasize its intensity and size, which appears to be the  time a name was designated by the office which evolved into the National  Center.
428 miami The hurricane turned northward and hit the Outer Banks later that day. The hurricane turned northward and hit the   later that .
429 miami Although hurricane warnings were initially issued for the Leeward Islands and Guadeloupe through Sint Maarten, the cyclone passed north of the Lesser Antilles. Although hurricane warnings were initially issued for the   and  through  , the cyclone passed north of the Lesser Antilles.
430 miami In advance of the storm, aircraft were evacuated from the Naval Air Station in Miami, Florida. In advance of the storm, aircraft were evacuated from the    in , .
431 miami In total, hundreds of planes left vulnerable locations. In total, hundreds of planes left vulnerable locations.
432 miami Residents were advised to heed advisories in Florida, the Bahamas, and northern Cuba. Residents were advised to heed advisories in , the , and northern .
433 miami On September 15, hurricane force winds were expected to affect areas from Fort Lauderdale, Florida through the Florida Keys, and hurricane warnings were accordingly released for this region. On  , hurricane force winds were expected to affect areas from  ,  through the  , and hurricane warnings were accordingly released for this region.
434 miami Storm warnings also extended north to Melbourne and Tampa. Storm warnings also extended north to  and .
435 miami Military personnel sought shelter at Hialeah Race Track, while residents boarded homes and evacuated from coastal areas to public structures. Military personnel sought shelter at  Race Track, while residents boarded homes and evacuated from coastal areas to public structures.
436 miami Boats were utilized to transport people from barrier islands, and small watercraft were secured along the Miami River. Boats were utilized to transport people from barrier islands, and small watercraft were secured along the  .
437 miami In south Florida, peak gusts were estimated near 150 mph (240 km/h) at the Army Air Base in Homestead. In south , peak gusts were estimated near  mph ( km/h) at the    in Homestead.
438 miami The strong winds destroyed 1,632 residences across the state, while 5,372 homes received damages. The strong winds destroyed  residences across the state, while  homes received damages.
439 miami The hurricane was the strongest tropical cyclone to strike Dade County until Hurricane Andrew in 1992. The hurricane was the strongest tropical cyclone to strike   until Hurricane  in .
440 miami In Miami, gusts reached 107 mph (170 km/h), and damages were minimal compared to communities in southern Dade County. In , gusts reached  mph ( km/h), and damages were minimal compared to communities in southern  .
441 miami 200 people were injured at the Army Air Base when a fire ignited during the storm, affecting three hangars and destroying 25 blimps, 366 planes, and 150 automobiles. people were injured at the Army Air Base when a fire ignited during the storm, affecting  hangars and destroying  blimps,  planes, and  automobiles.
442 miami An additional fire also destroyed a furniture factory and a tile manufacturing plant in the northwestern portion of downtown Miami. An additional fire also destroyed a furniture factory and a tile manufacturing plant in the northwestern portion of downtown .
443 miami More than 1,000 Red Cross workers were activated in response to the cyclone. More than    workers were activated in response to the cyclone.
444 miami In the Florida Keys, hundreds of residences were damaged. In the  , hundreds of residences were damaged.
445 miami Four people died across the state. people died across the state.
446 miami Hurricane warnings were issued for coastal areas of Florida, including the Florida Keys and Panhandle. Hurricane warnings were issued for coastal areas of , including the  Keys and Panhandle.
447 miami Storm advisories were also posted along the state's Atlantic coast, and portions of the Eastern Seaboard. Storm advisories were also posted along the state's  coast, and portions of the  .
448 miami They were discontinued on October 8, although small craft warnings remained in place along the Northeastern Coast. They were discontinued on  , although small craft warnings remained in place along the  .
449 miami Pan American Airways canceled flights between Miami and Havana, Cuba, and also to Guatemala and Mérida, Yucatán. canceled flights between  and , , and also to  and , .
450 miami Small navy vessels were secured, while larger ships rode out the storm at sea. Small navy vessels were secured, while larger ships rode out the storm at sea.
451 miami In the Key West neighborhood of Poinciana Plaza, 2,000 residents evacuated their homes. In the Key West neighborhood of  ,  residents evacuated their homes.
452 miami Emergency shelters in the area were opened, and local business slowed considerably with the exception of a few grocery stores selling emergency supplies. Emergency shelters in the area were opened, and local business slowed considerably with the exception of a few grocery stores selling emergency supplies.
453 miami Schools closed as windows were boarded up on houses and businesses. Schools closed as windows were boarded up on houses and businesses.
454 miami Throughout its course, the hurricane was heavily observed and investigated, resulting in an abundance of information that provided a more comprehensive understanding of a tropical cyclone's vertical structure. Throughout its course, the hurricane was heavily observed and investigated, resulting in an abundance of information that provided a more comprehensive understanding of a tropical cyclone's vertical structure.
455 miami It was profiled in detail in a "Monthly Weather Review" article by R. H. Simpson, titled "A Note on the Movement and Structure of the Florida Hurricane of October 1946". It was profiled in detail in a "Monthly Weather Review" article by   , titled "A Note on the Movement and Structure of the  Hurricane of  ".
456 miami This storm was named George by the Weather Bureau office in Miami, which worked in conjunction with the military at that time. This storm was named  by the   office in , which worked in conjunction with the military at that time.
457 miami This powerful hurricane hit near Fort Lauderdale, Florida, on September 17. This powerful hurricane hit near  , , on  .
458 miami It moved across the Gulf of Mexico as a weakened hurricane, but restrengthened before striking eastern Louisiana on September 19 as a Category 3 hurricane. It moved across the    as a weakened hurricane, but restrengthened before striking eastern  on   as a Category  hurricane.
459 miami The hurricane caused $110 million in damage (1947 dollars) and 51 casualties. The hurricane caused $110 million in damage ( dollars) and  casualties.
460 miami Although it was very powerful at its Florida landfall, its destruction was less severe than that of previous tropical cyclones in the 1920s. Although it was very powerful at its  landfall, its destruction was less severe than that of previous tropical cyclones in  .
461 miami An airport in south Florida recorded peak winds of 80 mph (130 km/h). An airport in south  recorded peak winds of  mph ( km/h).
462 miami The hurricane dropped 5-13 (12.7–33 cm) inches of rain across central and southern part of the state, including in Hialeah where the storm produced 3.6 inches (7.6 cm) in a one hour period and over 6 inches (15.2 cm) in a 75 minute period. The hurricane dropped  (– cm) inches of rain across central and southern part of the state, including in  where the storm produced  inches ( cm) in a   period and over  inches ( cm) in a   period.
463 miami The flooding rains left many neighborhoods in up to six feet of water due to a previously wet summer, and left over 2,000 Miami-Dade County residents homeless. The flooding rains left many neighborhoods in up to  feet of water due to a  wet , and left over    residents homeless.
464 miami The flooding also closed U.S. 1 from Miami to Fort Lauderdale, as well as a highway to Everglades City. The flooding also closed   from  to  , as well as a highway to  .
465 miami The hurricane spawned a tornado in both Coral Gables and Miami, one of which destroyed three warehouses. The hurricane spawned a tornado in both Coral Gables and ,  of which destroyed  warehouses.
466 miami In all, the hurricane caused $27.5 million dollars (1947 USD, $260 million 2005 USD) in damage in Florida. In all, the hurricane caused $27.5 million dollars ( USD, $260 million 2005 USD) in damage in .
467 miami Following the passage of the hurricane, Hialeah mayor Henry Milander declared a state of emergency and restricted access to the city. Following the passage of the hurricane,  mayor   declared a state of emergency and restricted access to the city.
468 miami In Miami, many residents had to use boats and rafts to survey damage and look for survivors, due to the flooding. In , many residents had to use boats and rafts to survey damage and look for survivors, due to the flooding.
469 miami Winds in Georgia peaked at 85 mph (135 km/h) in Savannah, where the storm caused $20 million dollars (1947 USD, $189 million 2005 USD) in damage. Winds in  peaked at  mph ( km/h) in , where the storm caused $20 million dollars ( USD, $189 million 2005 USD) in damage.
470 miami Elsewhere in Georgia, the storm caused $500,000 (1947 USD, $4.7 million 2005 USD) in damage, mainly due to a tornado that touched down near Hinesville. Elsewhere in , the storm caused $500,000 ( USD, $4.7 million 2005 USD) in damage, mainly due to a tornado that touched down near .
471 miami Tides twelve feet above normal were reported from Georgia to South Carolina. Tides  feet above normal were reported from  to  .
472 miami In Charleston, South Carolina, the high tides caused minor beach erosion and isolated street flooding, and one person was killed there by a falling tree. In ,  , the high tides caused minor beach erosion and isolated street flooding, and  person was killed there by a falling tree.
473 miami In North Carolina, the high tides caused minor flooding. In  , the high tides caused minor flooding.
474 miami In early October 1947, the origins of Hurricane Nine were detected north of Panama in the Intertropical Convergence Zone. In   , the origins of Hurricane  were detected north of  in the Intertropical Convergence Zone.
475 miami On October 9 at 0600 UTC, a minimal tropical storm was estimated to have formed with maximum sustained winds near ; thereafter it moved north by west. On   at  UTC, a minimal tropical storm was estimated to have formed with maximum sustained winds near ; thereafter it moved north by west.
476 miami By October 10, the storm accelerated and began strengthening steadily, reaching a peak intensity of  before striking land just before 0600 UTC on October 11 south of Pinar del Río in Pinar del Río Province, Cuba. By  , the storm accelerated and began strengthening steadily, reaching a peak intensity of  before striking land just before  UTC on   south of    in    , .
477 miami The center of the storm then began turning to the northeast before passing near Batista Field, which recorded wind gusts of up to . The center of the storm then began turning to the northeast before passing near  , which recorded wind gusts of up to .
478 miami Six hours after leaving northern Cuba, the storm rapidly became a hurricane, equivalent to Category 1 on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale. after leaving northern , the storm rapidly became a hurricane, equivalent to Category  on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
479 miami Just after 00 UTC on October 12, the hurricane struck Florida just north of Cape Sable, and just before 1200 UTC it left the Miami metropolitan area near Pompano Beach—the same area that had been hit by the 1947 Fort Lauderdale hurricane one month previous—with winds of . Just after   on  , the hurricane struck  just north of  , and just before   it left the  metropolitan area near  —the same area that had been hit by the    hurricane   previous—with winds of .
480 miami Unusually, the hurricane strengthened over land as it passed over South Florida, a phenomenon also observed in Tropical Storm Fay (2008), which struck the same region. Unusually, the hurricane strengthened over land as it passed over  , a phenomenon also observed in Tropical Storm Fay (), which struck the same region.
481 miami By October 12, the U.S. Weather Bureau issued hurricane warnings from the Miami metropolitan area to Vero Beach. By  , the    issued hurricane warnings from the  metropolitan area to  .
482 miami Upon striking southernmost Florida, the cyclone produced insignificant wind damage of $75,000 (1947 USD), largely due to its having struck an area hit by the more powerful 1947 Fort Lauderdale hurricane in September. Upon striking southernmost , the cyclone produced insignificant wind damage of $75,000 ( USD), largely due to its having struck an area hit by the more powerful    hurricane in .
483 miami Peak winds in Florida were estimated to have reached  around Cape Sable, the area where the storm made landfall,  though these were not officially accepted as the maximum sustained winds. Peak winds in  were estimated to have reached  around  , the area where the storm made landfall,  though these were not officially accepted as the maximum sustained winds.
484 miami At the Dry Tortugas, wind instruments reported readings up to  before failing due to “friction from lack of oil”; higher winds were believed to have occurred thereafter. At the  , wind instruments reported readings up to  before failing due to “friction from lack of oil”; higher winds were believed to have occurred thereafter.
485 miami Elsewhere in South Florida, the U.S. Weather Bureau Air Station at Miami International Airport reported sustained winds of ,  while the Weather Bureau Office in downtown Miami recorded peak winds of . Elsewhere in  , the      at   port reported sustained winds of ,  while the    in downtown  recorded peak winds of .
486 miami Between the two stations, each  apart, the difference in atmospheric pressure was 3 mb (0.09 inHg), but the lowest pressure was not below 995.3 mb (29.39 inHg). Between the  stations, each  apart, the difference in atmospheric pressure was  mb ( inHg), but the lowest pressure was not below 995. mb (29.9 inHg).
487 miami As the storm center passed just north of Fort Lauderdale, the city at 0700 UTC on October 12 reported a pressure of 982.1 mb (29 inHg) that was “still falling” at the time. As the storm center passed just north of  , the city at   on   reported a pressure of  mb ( inHg) that was “still falling” at the time.
488 miami The eye of the storm by 0830 UTC passed over the Hillsboro Inlet Lighthouse, which reported calm winds for an hour—the second time in less than a month in which the eye of a hurricane passed over or near the lighthouse, the other having occurred on September 17. The eye of the storm by   pssed over the   , which reported clm winds for  —the  time in  th   in which the eye of  hurrice pssed over or ner the lighthouse, the other hving occurred on  .
489 miami Region-wide, the hurricane produced significant rainfall totals of  to —and, in the interior, locally as high as —causing severe flooding. Region-wide, the hurricane produced significant rainfall totals of  to —and, in the interior, locally as high as —causing severe flooding.
490 miami The highest measured rainfall total in 24 hours in South Florida was  in northeastern Broward County. The highest measured rainfall total in   in   was  in northeastern  .
491 miami At a weather observation site in Hialeah,  of rain fell in as little as 10 minutes. At a weather observation site in ,  of rain fell in as little as  .
492 miami In all, as much as  fell in just 1¼ hour in the city; due to saturated ground preceding the arrival of the storm, much of the area flooded easily, leaving parts of the city submerged under  of water. In all, as much as  fell in just ¼  in the city; due to saturated ground preceding the arrival of the storm, much of the area flooded easily, leaving parts of the city submerged under  of water.
493 miami Similarly, “waist deep” depths were reported in nearby Miami Springs, Opa-locka, rural western sections of Pompano Beach, and many other cities of the Miami metropolitan area. Similarly, “waist deep” depths were reported in nearby  , , rural western sections of  , and many other cities of the  metropolitan area.
494 miami In Boca Raton, homes in the historic Old Floresta district that housed Army Air Field soldiers were flooded in up to  of water. In  , homes in the historic   district that housed    soldiers were flooded in up to  of water.
495 miami In the wake of the flooding in his city, Hialeah City Mayor Henry Milander blocked access from surrounding cities. In the wake of the flooding in his city,   Mayor   blocked access from surrounding cities.
496 miami In the Miami area, the Little River and the Seybold Canal overflowed,  as did the New River once again in Fort Lauderdale, which had previously done so during the September hurricane. In the  area, the   and the   overflowed,  as did the    again in  , which had  done so during the  hurricane.
497 miami During the storm, up to  of rain in three hours were reported to have fallen on the city of Fort Lauderdale, and sections of Broward County were under  of water. During the storm, up to  of rain in   were reported to have fallen on the city of  , and sections of   were under  of water.
498 miami On the Tamiami Trail, floodwaters extended all the way across the state from the Miami area to as far west as Everglades City in Collier County. On the  , floodwaters extended all the way across the state from the  area to as far west as   in  .
499 miami Due to the floods, septic tanks overflowed, leaving canal banks and patches of ground isolated by floodwaters; reportedly, U.S. Route 1, locally called Federal Highway and built largely upon the Atlantic coastal ridge—the highest elevation in South Florida—was flooded out between Miami and Fort Lauderdale. Due to the floods, septic tanks overflowed, leaving canal banks and patches of ground isolated by floodwaters; reportedly,  Route , locally called Federal Highway and built largely upon the  coastal ridge—the highest elevation in  —was flooded out between  and  .
500 miami Having been isolated by the floods, deer, rattlesnakes, and other wildlife, along with horses and cattle, sought shelter upon the remaining exposed ground, particularly levee banks. Having been isolated by the floods, deer, rattlesnakes, and other wildlife, along with horses and cattle, sought shelter upon the remaining exposed ground, particularly levee banks.
501 miami In South Florida, the flooding from the September and October hurricanes led to the creation in 1949 of what is now the South Florida Water Management District, which under a Congressional plan was entrusted with the task of preventing a recurrence of significant flooding by forming an improved flood-control system to modulate the water table and by providing suitable water levels with which to water crops, prevent saltwater intrusion, and support recreational opportunities as well as the growing South Florida communities. In  , the flooding from the  and  hurricanes led to the creation in  of what is  the     , which under a  plan was entrusted with the task of preventing a recurrence of significant flooding by forming an improved flood-control system to modulate the water table and by providing suitable water levels with which to water crops, prevent saltwater intrusion, and support recreational opportunities as well as the growing   communities.
502 miami Large pumping systems were constructed, along with numerous new levees and canals, to mitigate the risk of large-scale flooding, yet population growth since the late 1940s is believed to have reduced the extent of vacant lands needed for effective drainage, thereby increasing the risk of damage during a flood similar to that of 1947. Large pumping systems were constructed, along with numerous new levees and canals, to mitigate  risk of large-scale flooding, yet population growth since    is believed to have reduced  extent of vacant lands needed for effective drainage, reby increasing  risk of damage during a flood similar to that of .
503 miami In his 1974 book "Beyond the Fourth Generation," former EDD Chief Engineer Lamar Johnson voiced his concerns about large-scale development near the levees, which separate the Everglades water conservation areas from the Miami metropolitan area. In his  book "Beyond the  Generation," former EDD Chief Engineer   voiced his concerns about large-scale development near the levees, which separate the  water conservation areas from the  metropolitan area.
504 miami Johnson wrote, “It is my opinion...that anytime that area gets a foot or more of rainfall overnight, the shades of 1947’s flood will be with them again.” wrote, “It is my opinion...that anytime that area gets a foot or more of rainfall overnight, the shades of ’s flood will be with them again.”
505 miami Following the phonetic alphabet from World War II, the U.S. Weather Bureau office in Miami, Florida, which then worked in conjunction with the military, named the storm "King," though such names were apparently informal and did not appear in public advisories until 1950, when the first Atlantic storm to be so designated was Hurricane Fox. Following the phonetic alphabet from   , the    office in , , which then worked in conjunction with the military, named the storm "King," though such names were apparently informal and did not appear in public advisories until , when the   storm to be so designated was Hurricane Fox.
506 miami Hurricane Four was first monitored as an area of low pressure over French West Africa on September 2, 1947. Hurricane  was  monitored as an area of low pressure over    on   .
507 miami Steadily tracking westward, the system was quickly classified as a depression before moving into the Atlantic Ocean near Dakar, Senegal, on September 4. Shortly thereafter, weather agencies lost track of the system over water due to a lack of ships in the region. Steadily tracking westward, the system was quickly classified as a depression before moving into the   near , , on  .Shortly thereafter, weather agencies lost track of the system over water due to a lack of ships in the region.
508 miami However, later analysis determined that the cyclone obtained tropical storm status, with maximum sustained winds of 50 mph (85 km/h), during the afternoon of September 4. The storm quickly intensified as it tracked nearly due west, attaining winds of 75 mph (120 km/h), equivalent to a Category 1 hurricane on the Saffir–Simpson Hurricane Scale, roughly 18 hours after being classified a tropical storm. However, later analysis determined that the cyclone obtained tropical storm status, with maximum sustained winds of  mph ( km/h), during the afternoon of  .The storm quickly intensified as it tracked nearly due west, attaining winds of  mph ( km/h), equivalent to a Category  hurricane on the – Hurricane Scale, roughly 8  after being classified a tropical storm.
509 miami The hurricane maintained this intensity for nearly five days, taking a southwest turn on September 7 before turning to the northwest two days later, when the steamship "Arakaka" provided confirmation of its existence. The hurricane maintained this intensity for   , taking a southwest turn on          , when  steamship "Arakaka" provided confirmation of its existence.
510 miami Beginning then, the cyclone began to intensify more rapidly as its forward speed increased; between September 10 and 15, reconnaissance missions by the United States Navy began monitoring the hurricane. Beginning then, the cyclone began to intensify more rapidly as its forward speed increased; between   and , reconnaissance missions by the    began monitoring the hurricane.
511 miami At 1500 UTC on September 11, a navy aircraft first penetrated the storm; in less than 24 hours, the storm strengthened, with another mission registering a barometric pressure of 977 mb (28.84 inHg), a drop of 22 mb in 24 hours. At  UTC on  , a navy aircraft  penetrated the storm; in    , the storm strengthened, with another mission registering a barometric pressure of  mb ( inHg), a drop of  mb in  .
512 miami On September 13, another airplane at 1930 UTC confirmed that the storm had deepened further to 952 mb (28.11 inHg) and its eye shrunk to ;  by that time the hurricane had reached Category 4 intensity. On  , another airplane at  UTC confirmed that the storm had deepened further to  mb ( inHg) and its eye shrunk to ;  by that time the hurricane had reached Category  intensity.
513 miami The same mission reported a double eyewall,  a feature replaced by a large eye by the time the storm hit the Bahamas and Florida. The same mission reported a double eyewall,  a feature replaced by a large eye by the time the storm hit the  and .
514 miami The next day, the storm attained the minimum pressure, 938 mb (27.70 inHg), recorded by aircraft reconnaissance during its life span, yet continued to intensify thereafter. , the storm attained the minimum pressure,  mb ( inHg), recorded by aircraft reconnaissance during its life span, yet continued to intensify thereafter.
515 miami Early on September 16, as its movement slowed greatly and turned westward near the northern Bahamas, it attained its peak intensity of 160 mph (260 km/h). Early on  , as its movement slowed greatly and turned westward near the northern , it attained its peak intensity of 0 mph ( km/h).
516 miami Following the phonetic alphabet from World War II,  the U.S. Weather Bureau office in Miami, Florida, which then worked in conjunction with the military, named the storm George, though such names were apparently informal and did not appear in public advisories until 1950, when the first Atlantic storm to be so designated was Hurricane Fox. Following the phonetic alphabet from   ,  the    office in , , which then worked in conjunction with the military, named the storm , though such names were apparently informal and did not appear in public advisories until , when the   storm to be so designated was Hurricane Fox.
517 miami While retaining its intensity, the storm, its northwesterly course having been blocked by a ridge of high pressure, crossed the northern portion of the Abaco Islands, where on Elbow Cay the Hope Town weather station simultaneously estimated winds of 160 mph (260 km/h) and recorded 960.7 mb (28.37 inHg)  as the center passed just to the north. While retaining its intensity, the storm, its northwesterly course having been blocked by a ridge of high pressure, crossed the northern portion of the  , where on Elbow Cay the   weather station simultaneously estimated winds of  mph ( km/h) and recorded  mb ( inHg)  as the center passed just to the north.
518 miami About 24 hours later on September 17, it made landfall near Fort Lauderdale, Florida, as a strong Category 4 hurricane with maximum sustained winds near 155 mph (250 km/h)—only three other hurricanes, all Category 5 (the 1935 Labor Day hurricane, Camille, and Andrew), are estimated to have had higher maximum sustained winds upon striking the United States. on  , it made landfall near  , , as a strong Category  hurricane with maximum sustained winds near  mph ( km/h)—only  or hurricanes, all Category  ( 193   hurricane, , and ), are estimated to have had higher maximum sustained winds upon striking   .
519 miami To this date, the hurricane remains the only major hurricane to have struck Broward County, Florida, at that strength, and the only one to pass directly over the county seat of Fort Lauderdale,  though the 1926 Miami hurricane and Hurricane King caused significant damage in the county. To this date, the hurricane remains the only major hurricane to have struck  , , at that strength, and the only  to pass directly over the county seat of  ,  though the   hurricane and Hurricane King caused significant damage in the county.
520 miami About 1700 UTC, the cyclone produced peak gusts of 155 mph (250 km/h) and sustained winds of 122 mph (195 km/h) at Hillsboro Inlet Light near Pompano Beach, Florida; the gust was the highest measured wind speed recorded in the state of Florida until 1992, when Hurricane Andrew produced a gust of  at Perrine. UTC, the cyclone produced peak gusts of  mph ( km/h) and sustained winds of  mph ( km/h) at    near  , ; the gust was the highest measured wind speed recorded in the state of  until , when   produced a gust of  at .
521 miami The station also reported a pressure of 947.2 mb (27.97 inHg), the lowest during the passage of the storm over Florida, though its accuracy is uncertain as Fort Lauderdale, in the eye to the south, reported higher pressures, while winds at the lighthouse remained at hurricane force. The station also reported a pressure of  mb ( inHg), the lowest during the passage of the storm over , though its accuracy is uncertain as  , in the eye to the south, reported higher pressures, while winds at the lighthouse remained at hurricane force.
522 miami The hurricane moved slowly inland near 10 mph (16 km/h), and it diminished to a Category 2 hurricane over the Everglades. The hurricane moved slowly inland near  mph ( km/h), and it diminished to a Category  hurricane over the .
523 miami Early on September 18, the cyclone entered the Gulf of Mexico near Naples, producing wind gusts of 120 mph (190 km/h) at Sanibel Island Light near Fort Myers. Early on  , the cyclone entered the    near , producing wind gusts   mph ( km/h) at   Light near  .
524 miami On Lake Okeechobee, concerns about disastrous flooding were heightened by memories of the 1928 Okeechobee hurricane on the south shore and of the 1926 Miami hurricane at Moore Haven. On  , concerns about disastrous flooding were heightened by memories of the   hurricane on the south shore and of the   hurricane at  .
525 miami During the storm, tides peaked at  on the north shore of the lake  and  on the south shore at Clewiston and Moore Haven, nearly overrunning the Herbert Hoover Dike that surrounded the lake. During the storm, tides peaked at  on the north shore of the lake  and  on the south shore at  and  , nearly overrunning the    that surrounded the lake.
526 miami However, due to revamped improvements in the dike, the storm caused only minor damage, and the dike prevented a repeat of the flooding of 1926 and 1928, in which over 2,500 people drowned. However, due to revamped improvements in the dike, the storm caused only minor damage, and the dike prevented a repeat of the flooding of  and , in which over  people drowned.
527 miami Nevertheless, floodwaters in the Everglades region resulted in significant losses to cattle, and hundreds of small block homes in the agricultural districts were blown off their foundations. Nevertheless, floodwaters in the  region resulted in significant losses to cattle, and hundreds of small block homes in the agricultural districts were blown off their foundations.
528 miami Much of the marshy country was waterlogged during and after the storm. Much of the marshy country was waterlogged during and after the storm.
529 miami On the east coast of Florida, many cities experienced significant flooding; tides of up to  affected Broward and Palm Beach counties, washing out large portions of State Highway A1A between Palm Beach and Boynton Beach, as well as between Sunny Isles Beach and Haulover. On the east coast of , many cities experienced significant flooding; tides of up to  affected  and   counties, washing out large portions of State Highway A1A between   and  , as well as between    and .
530 miami High tides carved a channel  deep and rendered a nearby road impassable while nearly reopening New River Inlet, which had silted over and never re-emerged since the 1935 Yankee hurricane. High tides carved a channel  deep and rendered a nearby road impassable while nearly reopening   , which had silted over and never re-emerged since the   hurricane.
531 miami At Miami Beach many of the 334 resort hotels as well as homes and apartments were battered by waves. At   many of the  resort hotels as well as homes and apartments were battered by waves.
532 miami There, a three-to-four-ft-deep (0.9-to-1.2-m) layer of sand covered many oceanfront grounds, and nearby neighborhoods on the Venetian Islands, like Belle Isle, were flooded to a depth of several feet. There, a three-to-four-ft-deep (0.9-to-1-m) layer of sand covered many oceanfront grounds, and nearby neighborhoods on the  , like  , were flooded to a depth of several feet.
533 miami As it crossed South Florida at about , the storm dropped a prodigious amount of rain over a broad area, peaking at  at Saint Lucie Lock. As it crossed   at about , the storm dropped a prodigious amount of rain over a broad area, peaking at  at   .
534 miami In Miami, the city manager claimed  of city streets were flooded out, while in Miami Springs half the homes were flooded. In , the city manager claimed  of city streets were flooded out, while in   half the homes were flooded.
535 miami The town of Davie, having lost 35,000 "citrus" trees to floodwaters in preceding months,  suffered devastating losses to groves and vegetable beds. The town of , having lost  "citrus" trees to floodwaters in preceding ,  suffered devastating losses to groves and vegetable beds.
536 miami On the evening of September 15, the U.S. Weather Bureau expected the storm to recurve, precipitating a possible landfall between  Jacksonville, Florida, and Savannah, Georgia. On the evening of  , the    expected the storm to recurve, precipitating a possible landfall between  , , and , .
537 miami As a precautionary measure, small watercraft between Jupiter, Florida, and Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, were advised to remain in port. As a precautionary measure, small watercraft between , , and  ,  , were advised to remain in port.
538 miami Early on September 16, the forecast was revised, and hurricane warnings were issued for the Florida east coast from Titusville to Fort Lauderdale, later to be expanded to Miami. Early on  , the forecast was revised, and hurricane warnings were issued for the  east coast from  to  , later to be expanded to .
539 miami As the hurricane approached Northern commercial flights were grounded, and 1,500 National Guard troops were readied for mobilization if “deemed necessary” by Florida Governor Millard Caldwell. As the hurricane approached Northern commercial flights were grounded, and  National Guard troops were readied for mobilization if “deemed necessary” by  Governor  .
540 miami 4,700 persons in Broward County moved into shelters established by the Red Cross, while up to 15,000 people evacuated the flood-prone Lake Okeechobee region. persons in   moved into shelters established by the  , while up to  people evacuated the flood-prone   region.
541 miami In all, more than 40,000 people statewide moved into shelters established by the Red Cross. In all, more than  people statewide moved into shelters established by the  .
542 miami Military aircraft were flown to safer locations, in some cases four days or more in advance. Military aircraft were flown to safer locations, in some cases   or more in advance.
543 miami Hotels in the threatened area filled quickly due to fears of a disaster similar to the 1928 Okeechobee hurricane; at Melbourne and Cocoa no vacant hotels were left for evacuees. Hotels in the threatened area filled quickly due to fears of a disaster similar to the  Okeechobee hurricane; at  and Cocoa no vacant hotels were left for evacuees.
544 miami During the storm, the MacArthur, North Bay (now Kennedy), and Venetian Causeways in Miami were closed to traffic. During the storm, the ,   ( ), and Venetian Causeways in  were closed to traffic.
545 miami At Lake Worth alone, 1,800 people sheltered in nine official shelters during the storm. At   alone,  people sheltered in  official shelters during the storm.
546 miami Cuba, the site of the strongest winds, received significant damage from the cyclone, and eleven fatalities occurred on the island. , the site of the strongest winds, received significant damage from the cyclone, and  fatalities occurred on the island.
547 miami In Florida, the hurricane produced heavy rains and floods in the Miami region. In , the hurricane produced heavy rains and floods in the  region.
548 miami Three tornadoes also occurred in the state; however, no deaths were confirmed. tornadoes also occurred in the state; however, no deaths were confirmed.
549 miami The impacts of Hurricane Seven, occurring two weeks prior to the storm, reduced the destruction from the October cyclone. The impacts of Hurricane , occurring   prior to the storm, reduced the destruction from the  cyclone.
550 miami The cyclone also caused extensive destruction on Bermuda. The cyclone also caused extensive destruction on .
551 miami A weak tropical storm, with winds of 40 mph (70 km/h), formed 90 miles (145 km) east-northeast of Cape Gracias a Dios, Nicaragua, on October 3. A weak tropical storm, with winds of  mph ( km/h), formed  miles ( km) east-northeast of   a Dios, , on  .
552 miami The cyclone, moving northwest, strengthened to a hurricane on the next day. The cyclone, moving northwest, strengned to a hurricane on   .
553 miami The system was noted as an organized tropical cyclone at 10:45 a.m. The system was noted as an organized tropical cyclone at 10:45 a.m.
554 miami (1545 UTC) on the same date. ( UTC) on the same date.
555 miami On October 5, the hurricane intensified and attained winds of at least 120 mph (195 km/h). On  , the hurricane intensified and attained winds of at least  mph (19 km/h).
556 miami Subsequently, the hurricane, reaching a peak intensity of 135 mph (215 km/h), made landfall east of Almacén in the Pinar del Río Province, Cuba. Subsequently, the hurricane, reaching a peak intensity of  mph ( km/h), made landfall east of  in the    , .
557 miami The center passed west of Havana, where winds were measured near 132 mph (213 km/h). The center passed west of , where winds were measured near  mph ( km/h).
558 miami Later, the hurricane made landfall near Marathon on the evening of the same date. Later, the hurricane made landfall near Marathon on the evening of the same date.
559 miami Maximum sustained winds were near 125 mph (200 km/h), and Sombrero Key reported a pressure of 975 mbar (28.80 inHg). Maximum sustained winds were near  mph ( km/h), and Sombrero Key reported a pressure of  mbar ( inHg).
560 miami A lull, indicating the passage of the eye, persisted for 45 minutes at Marathon and the Bahia Honda Bridge. A lull, indicating the passage of the eye, persisted for   at Marathon and the   .
561 miami Maximum winds were estimated near 100 mph (161 km/h) in the Florida Keys. Maximum winds were estimated near  mph ( km/h) in the  .
562 miami The hurricane passed over Miami around 7 p.m. (00 UTC); sustained winds of 90 mph (145 km/h) were documented at the U.S. Weather Bureau's airport station, and the lowest pressure was 979 mbar (28.92 inHg). The hurricane passed over  around 7 p.m. ( UTC); sustained winds of  mph ( km/h) were documented at the   's airport station, and the lowest pressure was  mbar ( inHg).
563 miami The duration of the center was 35 minutes at the station; the lull lasted for a longer period at the Miami City Office, but the pressure did not drop below 981 mbar (28.96 inHg). The duration of the center was   at the station; the lull lasted for a longer period at the   , but the pressure did not drop below  mbar ( inHg).
564 miami A total of 26 bulletins were released by the Miami Weather Bureau office. A total of  bulletins were released by the    office.
565 miami In Cuba, eleven deaths were attributed to the tropical cyclone. In ,  deaths were attributed to the tropical cyclone.
566 miami Homes and cattle were swept away by flash flooding. Homes and cattle were swept away by flash flooding.
567 miami 300 injuries were reported, and damages reached $6,000,000 (1948 USD). injuries were reported, and damages reached $6,000,000 ( USD).
568 miami The hurricane, reminiscent of Hurricane Floyd in 1987, produced minimal damage in the Florida Keys. The hurricane, reminiscent of Hurricane Floyd in , produced minimal damage in the  .
569 miami In southern Florida, the cyclone produced a storm surge of 4.5 feet (1.4 m) on Biscayne Bay. In southern , the cyclone produced a storm surge of  feet ( m) on  .
570 miami Rainfall exceeded 9.5 inches (241.30 Rainfall exceeded  inches (
571 miami mm) at the Miami airport station, and Miami streets were flooded by deep water. mm) at the  airport station, and  streets were flooded by deep water.
572 miami Water resembled flooding streams in the streets of Homestead, Miami Springs, Hialeah, and sections of Miami Beach. Water resembled flooding streams in the streets of Homestead,  , , and sections of  .
573 miami In Hialeah, the city mayor reported water depths of 3.5 feet (1.1 m) in the streets. In , the city mayor reported water depths of  feet ( m) in the streets.
574 miami The city had been plagued by floods in recent years. The city had been plagued by floods in  .
575 miami A Miami bridge, located near the Miami River, was damaged by a loose barge during the hurricane. A  bridge, located near the  , was damaged by a loose barge during the hurricane.
576 miami Planes were overturned and damaged by strong winds at the Tamiami Airport. Planes were overturned and damaged by strong winds at the  .
577 miami The hurricane produced three tornadoes prior to landfall. The hurricane produced  tornadoes prior to landfall.
578 miami One tornado, touching down around 4 p.m., demolished 25 homes south of Pompano Beach. tornado, touching down around 4 p.m., demolished  homes south of  .
579 miami A total of 29 residences were damaged or destroyed. A total of  residences were damaged or destroyed.
580 miami Forty-four minutes later, the second tornado struck homes west of Fort Lauderdale. tornado struck homes west of  .
581 miami One building, containing two stories, lost its roof, while five homes incurred damage. building, containing  stories, lost its roof, while  homes incurred damage.
582 miami Barns were damaged or destroyed. Barns were damaged or destroyed.
583 miami Losses reached $15,000 (1948 USD). Losses reached $15,000 ( USD).
584 miami Another tornado destroyed three homes in the city of Opa-locka, where damages reached $100,000 (1948 USD). Another tornado destroyed  homes in the city of , where damages reached $100,000 ( USD).
585 miami The tornado flipped cars and inflicted extensive damage at the Royal Palm dairy farm. The tornado flipped cars and inflicted extensive damage at the Royal Palm dairy farm.
586 miami All of the tornadoes attained the equivalence of F2 intensity on the modern Fujita scale. All of the tornadoes attained the equivalence of F2 intensity on the modern  scale.
587 miami The hurricane caused no fatalities across the state, and the recent passage of Hurricane Seven, which had resulted in pre-existing damage, mitigated the destruction from the October hurricane. The hurricane caused no fatalities across the state, and the recent passage of Hurricane , which had resulted in pre-existing damage, mitigated the destruction from the  hurricane.
588 miami Total losses in Florida reached $5,500,000; more than one-half of the costs were attributed to property damage. Total losses in  reached $5,500,000; more than one-half of the costs were attributed to property damage.
589 miami The lack of fatalities was unusual in a densely populated region. The lack of fatalities was unusual in a densely populated region.
590 miami The "1948 Miami hurricane" was one of the strongest tropical cyclones of the 1948 Atlantic hurricane season. The "  hurricane" was  of the strongest tropical cycls of the   hurricane season.
591 miami The hurricane, the second most intense storm of the season, produced winds of 130 mph (215 km/h) in the Havana, Cuba region. The hurricane, the  most intense storm of the season, produced winds of  mph ( km/h) in the ,  region.
592 miami The eighth tropical storm, fifth hurricane, and the fourth major hurricane of the season, it developed east-northeast of Cape Gracias a Dios, Nicaragua. The  tropical storm,  hurricane, and the  major hurricane of the season, it developed east-northeast of   a Dios, .
593 miami Subsequently, it intensified over the western Caribbean Sea, attained winds of hurricane strength, and made landfall on western Cuba. Subsequently, it intensified over the western  , attained winds of hurricane strength, and made landfall on western .
594 miami The cyclone, which was the equivalence of a Category 4 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale, crossed the island and struck the Florida Keys as a major hurricane. The cyclone, which was the equivalence of a Category  hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale, crossed the island and struck the   as a major hurricane.
595 miami The center passed over Miami, departed near Fort Lauderdale, and crossed the Atlantic Ocean south of Bermuda. The center passed over , departed near  , and crossed the   south of .
596 miami In Florida, the hurricane produced hurricane force gusts from Miami Beach to Saint Augustine. In , the hurricane produced hurricane force gusts from   to Saint Augustine.
597 miami The majority of the state experienced sustained winds of at least 50 mph (85 km/h). The majority of the state experienced sustained winds of at least  mph ( km/h).
598 miami The storm produced the most severe conditions over the Lake Okeechobee region since 1928, and peak gusts were measured from 100 (161 km/h) to 126 mph (203 km/h) near the lake. The storm produced the most severe conditions over the   region since , and peak gusts were measured from  ( km/h) to  mph ( km/h) near the lake.
599 miami The minimum central pressure near Lake Okeechobee was 956 mbar (28.24 inHg) at Canal Point; pressures were below 982 mbar (29.00 inHg) as far north as Levy County, which is located in the Big Bend of the state. The minimum central pressure near   was  mbar ( inHg) at Canal Point; pressures were below  mbar ( inHg) as far north as  , which is located in the   of the state.
600 miami On August 25, the northern Bahamas were advised to initiate hurricane precautions, and a hurricane warning was issued for the islands. On  , the northern  were advised to initiate hurricane precautions, and a hurricane warning was issued for the islands.
601 miami South Floridians were encouraged to closely monitor the progress of the storm. were encouraged to closely monitor the progress of the storm.
602 miami On August 26, hurricane warnings were released from Miami to Vero Beach; officials decided to cancel proposed evacuations of the Lake Okeechobee region, as the presence of the Herbert Hoover Dike was expected to prevent flooding. On  , hurricane warnings were released from  to  ; officials decided to cancel proposed evacuations of the   region, as the presence of the    was expected to prevent flooding.
603 miami On the southeast coast of Florida, unofficial wind gusts reached 155 mph (250 km/h) at Palm Beach and 160 mph (260 km/h) at Stuart, respectively. On the southeast coast of , unofficial wind gusts reached  mph ( km/h) at   and  mph ( km/h) at , respectively.
604 miami Vero Beach reported sustained winds of 97 mph (156 km/h) and peak gusts of 110 mph (177 km/h). reported sustained winds of  mph ( km/h) and peak gusts of  mph ( km/h).
605 miami Tides reached 12 feet (144 in) above normal at Belle Glade and Clewiston, but the Herbert Hoover Dike remained intact, protecting the area from severe flooding. Tides reached  feet ( in) above normal at   and , but the    remained intact, protecting the area from severe flooding.
606 miami Minimal erosion occurred in some locales. Minimal erosion occurred in some locales.
607 miami Palm Beach, Jupiter, and Stuart experienced the most severe damage from the storm in south Florida; hundreds of homes, apartment buildings, stores, and warehouse buildings lost roofs and windows. , Jupiter, and  experienced the most severe damage from the storm in south ; hundreds of homes, apartment buildings, stores, and warehouse buildings lost roofs and windows.
608 miami Interior furnishings were blown through broken glass into the streets. Interior furnishings were blown through broken glass into the streets.
609 miami Severe damage was received by 40 percent of Stuart's residences and commercial structures, and 90 percent required repairs. Severe damage was received by 40 percent of 's residences and commercial structures, and 90 percent required repairs.
610 miami A church, baseball park, and ice company was destroyed in the area's black neighborhoods. A church, baseball park, and ice company was destroyed in the area's black neighborhoods.
611 miami Many flimsy buildings were destroyed in the neighborhoods. Many flimsy buildings were destroyed in the neighborhoods.
612 miami In West Palm Beach, cars were overturned in the interior of a dealership as winds shattered windows. In   , cars were overturned in the interior of a dealership as winds shattered windows.
613 miami Sand and debris covered the island of Palm Beach. Sand and debris covered the island of  .
614 miami Heavy rainfall resulted in flooding, and water entered many homes in Palm Beach and Martin counties. Heavy rainfall resulted in flooding, and water entered many homes in   and  counties.
615 miami Snakes and mosquitoes infested many residences. Snakes and mosquitoes infested many residences.
616 miami Precipitation totals of 8.18, 7.10, and  were measured at Belle Glade, Okeechobee, and St. Lucie Lock, respectively. Precipitation totals of , , and  were measured at  , , and   , respectively.
617 miami Miami received less damage, although trees and power lines were knocked down. received less damage, although trees and power lines were knocked down.
618 miami Winds reached 60 mph (97 km/h) in the city. Winds reached  mph ( km/h) in the city.
619 miami Radio towers were toppled in Lake Worth and Belle Glade, and three portions of the Jensen causeway near Sewall's Point were ripped away. Radio towers were toppled in   and  , and  portions of the Jensen causeway near 's Point were ripped away.
620 miami A hangar and beacon was destroyed at the local airport in Martin County. A hangar and beacon was destroyed at the local airport in  .
621 miami 500 people were homeless in Stuart. people were homeless in .
622 miami A water mark of 8.5 feet (102 in) was recorded on the St. Lucie River near Stuart. A water mark of  feet ( in) was recorded on the    near .
623 miami After reaching the southwestern Atlantic Ocean, King turned northward and later northwestward, striking downtown Miami, Florida on October 18 with winds of 122 mph (197 km/h). After reaching the southwestern  , King turned northward and later northwestward, striking downtown ,  on   with winds of  mph ( km/h).
624 miami It was the most severe hurricane to impact the city since the 1926 Miami hurricane. It was the most severe hurricane to impact the city since the   hurricane.
625 miami Across Florida, damage totaled $27.75 million (1950 USD, $  USD), of which $15 million (1950 USD, $  USD) was in the Miami metropolitan area. Across , damage totaled $27.75 million ( USD, $  USD), of which $15 million ( USD, $  USD) was in the  metropolitan area.
626 miami A preliminary survey indicated there were 12,290 houses damaged in the region, with an additional eight destroyed. A preliminary survey indicated there were  houses damaged in the region, with an additional  destroyed.
627 miami Along its path through the state, strong winds were observed around Lake Okeechobee, with a 93 mph (150 km/h) gust in Clewiston. Along its path through the state, strong winds were observed around  , with a  mph ( km/h) gust in .
628 miami Overall, there were three deaths in the state. Overall, there were  deaths in the state.
629 miami Early on October 19, King weakened to tropical storm status over north-central Florida, and later that day it dissipated over western Georgia. Early on  , King weakened to tropical storm status over north-central , and later that  it dissipated over western .
630 miami There was one additional death in Georgia. There was  additional death in .
631 miami The tropical cyclones of the season produced a total of 88 fatalities and $38.5 million in property damage (1950 USD, $  USD). The tropical cyclones of the season produced a total of  fatalities and $38.5 million in property damage ( USD, $  USD).
632 miami The first officially named Atlantic hurricane was Hurricane Able, which formed on August 12, brushed the North Carolina coastline, and later moved across southeastern Canada. The  officially named  hurricane was Hurricane Able, which formed on  , brushed the   coastline, and later moved across southeastern .
633 miami The strongest hurricane of the season, Hurricane Dog reached the equivalent of a Category 5 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson scale, and caused extensive damage to the Leeward Islands. The strongest hurricane of the season, Hurricane Dog reached the equivalent of a Category  hurricane on the  scale, and caused extensive damage to the  .
634 miami Two major hurricanes affected Florida: Easy produced the largest 24-hour rainfall total recorded in the United States, while King struck downtown Miami and caused $27.75 million (1950 USD, $  USD) of damage. major hurricanes affected : Easy produced the largest  rainfall total recorded in the  , while King struck downtown  and caused $27.75 million ( USD, $  USD) of damage.
635 miami The last storm of the year, Hurricane Love, dissipated on October 21 after striking the Florida Panhandle and causing minimal damage. The last storm of  , Hurricane Love, dissipated on   after striking    and causing minimal damage.
636 miami On February 2, a tropical depression formed in the western Caribbean Sea two months after the end of the hurricane season. On  , a tropical depression formed in the western     after the end of the hurricane season.
637 miami It moved quickly north-northwestward and intensified into a tropical storm, followed by a northeast turn after brushing the Yucatan Peninsula. It moved quickly north-northwestward and intensified into a tropical storm, followed by a northeast turn after brushing the  .
638 miami Early on February 3, the storm struck Cape Sable, Florida and quickly crossed the state. Early on  , the storm struck  ,  and quickly crossed the state.
639 miami The Miami National Weather Service office recorded a wind gust of 68 mph (110 km/h) during its passage. The     office recorded a wind gust of  mph ( km/h) during its passage.
640 miami The winds damaged windows and power lines, catching residents and tourists off-guard. The winds damaged windows and power lines, catching residents and tourists off-guard.
641 miami The cyclone also dropped 2–4 inches (50–100 mm) of precipitation along its path, causing crop damage in Miami-Dade County. The cyclone also dropped – inches (– mm) of precipitation along its path, causing crop damage in  .
642 miami Residents and tourists in southern Florida were unprepared for the unusual off-season storm. Residents and tourists in southern  were unprepared for the unusual off-season storm.
643 miami Winds of up to 65 mph (105 km/h) spread across the area, causing damage to windows and power lines. Winds of up to  mph ( km/h) spread across the area, causing damage to windows and power lines.
644 miami The storm dropped 2–4 inches (50–100 mm) of precipitation along its path; the combination of unseasonable rainfall and winds resulted in crop damage in Miami-Dade County. The storm dropped – inches (– mm) of precipitation along its path; the combination of unseasonable rainfall and winds resulted in crop damage in  .
645 miami After the storm moved into the western Atlantic, the Miami U.S. Weather Bureau issued storm warnings for the North Carolina coastline from Wilmington to Cape Hatteras; the region was warned to prepare for strong winds. After the storm moved into the western , the     issued storm warnings for the   coastline from  to  ; the region was warned to prepare for strong winds.
646 miami The agency also issued a small craft advisory southward through Charleston, South Carolina. The agency also issued a small craft advisory southward through ,  .
647 miami Offshore, the storm produced winds of up to 85 mph (140 km/h), as well as waves up to 35 feet (10 m) in height. Offshore, the storm produced winds of up to  mph ( km/h), as well as waves up to  feet ( m) in height.
648 miami The combination of the winds and rough waves drove a freighter ashore along Portsmouth Island in the Outer Banks, after the engine was damaged when water entered the fuel line. The combination of the winds and rough waves drove a freighter ashore along   in the Outer Banks, after the engine was damaged when water entered the fuel line.
649 miami The 26 person crew initially planned to evacuate, but they later decided to stay on the freighter as the U.S. Coast Guard were deployed to assist. The  person crew initially planned to evacuate, but they later decided to stay on the freighter as the    were deployed to assist.
650 miami The seas damaged a portion of the ship, but the entire crew was rescued without any injuries. The seas damaged a portion of the ship, but the entire crew was rescued without any injuries.
651 miami The storm later brushed New England, bringing rain, fog, warmer temperatures, and gusty winds. The storm later brushed  , bringing rain, fog, warmer temperatures, and gusty winds.
652 miami The combination resulted in downed power poles and tree limbs, leaving 10,000 houses without electricity. The combination resulted in downed power poles and tree limbs, leaving  houses without electricity.
653 miami The storm was described as a "freak", forming about three months after the end of the hurricane season. The storm was described as a "freak", forming    after the end of the hurricane season.
654 miami The chief forecaster at Miami U.S. Weather Bureau, Grady Norton, remarked that he was unsure how the cyclone developed. The chief forecaster at    ,  , remarked that he was unsure how the cyclone developed.
655 miami It is the only tropical or subtropical storm on record during the month of February, and was the earliest tropical cyclone to strike the United States. It is  only tropical or subtropical storm on record during    , and was  earliest tropical cyclone to strike   .
656 miami Its structure initially was uncertain, and the storm was not included in the 1952 Atlantic hurricane season summary published by the Miami Weather Bureau office. Its structure initially was uncertain, and the storm was not included in the   hurricane season summary published by the    office.
657 miami Ultimately it was included in the tropical cyclone database. Ultimately it was included in the tropical cyclone database.
658 miami Had it been operationally treated as a tropical cyclone, it would have been named Tropical Storm Able. Had it been operationally treated as a tropical cyclone, it would have been named Tropical Storm Able.
659 miami On February 2, Groundhog Day, a disturbance was first observed in the western Caribbean Sea, declared to have been a tropical cyclone. On     a disturbance was  observed in the western   declared to have been a tropical cyclone.
660 miami Winds were estimated at around 35 mph (55 km/h), and it tracked rapidly northward, initially to the north-northwest. Winds were estimated at around  mph ( km/h), and it tracked rapidly northward, initially to the north-northwest.
661 miami After passing near Cancún along the Yucatan Peninsula, it turned northeastward and brushed the northwest coast of Cuba. After passing near  along the  , it turned northeastward and brushed the northwest coast of .
662 miami Early on February 3 the storm approached Key West, and shortly thereafter moved ashore near Cape Sable, Florida. Early on   the storm approached Key West, and shortly thereafter moved ashore near  , .
663 miami It quickly crossed the state, passing near Miami before emerging into the western Atlantic Ocean. It quickly crossed the state, passing near  before emerging into the western  .
664 miami The Miami National Weather Service office recorded a wind gust of 68 mph (110 km/h), as well as sustained tropical storm force winds for about four hours; the station also recorded a barometric pressure of 1004 mbar (29.66 inHg). The     office recorded a wind gust of  mph ( km/h), as well as sustained tropical storm force winds for   ; the station also recorded a barometric pressure of  mbar ( inHg).
665 miami The hurricane season officially began on June 15, when the United States Weather Bureau in Miami, Florida began 24 hour operations. The hurricane season officially began on  , when the     in ,  began   operations.
666 miami The agency, under the direction of Grady Norton had access to 43 other weather stations across the Atlantic basin. The agency, under the direction of   had access to  other weather stations across the  basin.
667 miami Norton died during the season from a stroke while tracking Hurricane Hazel. died during the season from a stroke while tracking Hurricane Hazel.
668 miami Additionally, a group of Hurricane Hunters planes were put on standby for the season, able to be flown out into storms and collect data. Additionally, a group of Hurricane Hunters planes were put on standby for the season, able to be flown out into storms and collect data.
669 miami During the season, there were eight named storms, as well as an unnamed hurricane and a tropical depression. During the season, there were  named storms, as well as an unnamed hurricane and a tropical depression.
670 miami The season officially ended on November 15, although an unnamed tropical storm formed a day later. The seson officilly ended on  , lthough n unnmed tropicl storm formed  dy lter.
671 miami In addition, Tropical Storm Alice developed on December 31, the latest a tropical cyclone has developed in the calendar year. In addition, Tropical Storm Alice developed on  , the latest a tropical cyclone has developed in the calendar .
672 miami The storm produced significant rainfall in a  region of Florida. The storm produced significant rainfall in a  region of .
673 miami The highest total in the state was  in Kissimmee. The highest total in the state was  in .
674 miami There, the rains caused flash flooding that entered over 200 houses. There, the rains caused flash flooding that entered over  houses.
675 miami The flooding flooded three state highways, and also left portions of Okeechobee inaccessible after reporting the heaviest rainfall in eight years. The flooding flooded  state highways, and also left portions of  inaccessible after reporting the heaviest rainfall in  .
676 miami Large tomato fields were inundated, resulting in some crop damage. Large tomato fields were inundated, resulting in some crop damage.
677 miami In portions of the state, the rains were beneficial due to previously dry conditions. In portions of the state, the rains were beneficial due to  dry conditions.
678 miami The storm spawned a tornado in North Miami that injured one person. The storm spawned a tornado in   that injured  person.
679 miami Damage throughout Florida was estimated at $3 million, mostly in the Kissimmee area. Damage throughout  was estimated at $3 million, mostly in the  area.
680 miami In addition, two surfers drowned during the storm. In addition,  surfers drowned during the storm.
681 miami Precipitation extended as far north as New Jersey, and coastal areas experienced high tides and gusty winds. Precipitation extended as far north as  , and coastal areas experienced high tides and gusty winds.
682 miami A low pressure area formed along a dissipating cold front to the north of Puerto Rico. A low pressure area formed along a dissipating cold front to the north of  .
683 miami The system moved westward, developing some tropical characteristics by October 13. The system moved westward, developing some tropical characteristics by  .
684 miami The next day, the storm moved over Cuba before turning to the north. , the storm moved over  before turning to the north.
685 miami On October 15, it crossed over southeastern Florida near Miami. On  , it crossed over southeastern  near .
686 miami The storm was never fully tropical, as its winds and precipitation extended far away from the center. The storm was never fully tropical, as its winds and precipitation extended far away from the center.
687 miami It produced sustained winds of  with gusts to . It produced sustained winds of  with gusts to .
688 miami After affecting Florida, the storm crossed the western Atlantic and moved across the Outer Banks. After affecting , the storm crossed the western  and moved across the Outer Banks.
689 miami The storm became extratropical on October 18 offshore Virginia, and the next day it was absorbed by another extratropical storm. The storm became extratropical on   offshore , and    it was absorbed by anor extratropical storm.
690 miami The season officially began on June 15, the date that the Weather Bureau office in Miami, Florida, under the direction of Gordon Dunn, began daily monitoring of all tropical disturbances and cyclones across the northern Atlantic Ocean. The season officially began on  , the date that the Weather Bureau office in , , under the direction of  , began daily monitoring of all tropical disturbances and cyclones across the northern  .
691 miami The agency had access to the Hurricane Hunters, a fleet of aircraft that obtain data by flying into storms. The agency had access to the Hurricane Hunters, a fleet of aircraft that obtain data by flying into storms.
692 miami The Weather Bureau, in collaboration with other agencies, began a five&ndash;year project in 1956 to obtain and analyze data on the structure of hurricanes. The Weather Bureau, in collaboration with other agencies, began a &ndash; project in  to obtain and analyze data on the structure of hurricanes.
693 miami The season officially ended on November 15. The season officially ended on  .
694 miami The hurricane caused 33 deaths and considerable damage as an extratropical cyclone. The hurricane caused  deaths and considerable damage as an extratropical cyclone.
695 miami It also caused $1,656,000 (1959 USD) in damage in Florida, most of which came from a single tornado in Miami. It also caused $1,656,000 ( USD) in damage in , most of which came from a single tornado in .
696 miami In its early stages, the storm dropped moderately heavy rainfall in Florida, which caused damage to crops. In its early stages, the storm dropped moderately heavy rainfall in , which caused damage to crops.
697 miami A tornado near Miami and high tides on the west coast of the state also resulted in damage. A tornado near  and high tides on the west coast of the state also resulted in damage.
698 miami Overall, losses in Florida were slightly more than $1.5 million (1959 USD). Overall, losses in  were slightly more than $1.5 million ( USD).
699 miami After becoming extratropical, the storm caused significant effects in Atlantic Canada. After becoming extratropical, the storm caused significant effects in  .
700 miami Rough seas damaged or destroyed numerous fishing boats and caused 35 fatalities. Rough seas damaged or destroyed numerous fishing boats and caused  fatalities.
701 miami High winds also disrupted communications in some areas. High winds also disrupted communications in some areas.
702 miami By September 26, Florence made landfall near the Alabama-Florida border and dissipated over Mississippi on the following day. By  ,  made landfall near   border and dissipated over  on   .
703 miami On Grand Bahama,  of rain fell in only 6 hours. On  ,  of rain fell in only  .
704 miami No impact was reported in Cuba. No impact was reported in .
705 miami The storm dropped rainfall across Florida, though the heavier amounts were mainly on the Atlantic coast. The storm dropped rainfall across , though the heavier amounts were mainly on the  coast.
706 miami Precipitation peaked at  near Fellsmere, while rainfall reached  in some areas of the Miami metropolitan area. Precipitation peaked at  near Fellsmere, while rainfall reached  in some areas of the  metropolitan area.
707 miami Although Florence was a depression at landfall, sustained winds between  were recorded in Ocean Ridge, while a gust as high as  was reported in Vero Beach. Although  was a depression at landfall, sustained winds between  were recorded in  , while a gust as high as  was reported in  .
708 miami In Jacksonville, a pressure gradient combined with Florida to produce tides of  about normal. In , a pressure gradient combined with  to produce tides of  about normal.
709 miami A tropical wave strengthened into a depression on August 20, and was named Tropical Storm Cleo soon after. A tropical wave strengthened into a depression on  , and was named Tropical Storm  soon after.
710 miami Cleo moved quickly to the west and strengthened into a Category 4 storm by the time it churned through the Lesser Antilles. moved quickly to the west and strengthened into a Category  storm by the time it churned through the Lesser Antilles.
711 miami The hurricane remained a Category 4 as it passed into the Caribbean, and moved just to the south of Hispaniola on August 24, and then veered more to the north which brought a landfall on the tip of Haiti. The hurricane remained a Category  as it passed into the , and moved just to the south of  on  2, and then veered more to the north which brought a landfall on the tip of .
712 miami The storm then turned to the north and weakened to a Category 1 before it struck Cuba, but remained a hurricane the whole time over land. The storm then turned to the north and weakened to a Category  before it struck , but remained a hurricane the whole time over land.
713 miami Cleo then brushed against Miami and the east coast of Florida as it weakened from a Category 2 hurricane to a tropical storm. then brushed against  and the east coast of  as it weakened from a Category  hurricane to a tropical storm.
714 miami Cleo killed a total of 217 people and caused serious property damage as it travelled through the Caribbean Sea and into Florida, totaling $198 million (1964 USD, $  USD) in damage. killed a total of  people and caused serious property damage as it travelled through the   and into , totaling $198 million ( USD, $  USD) in damage.
715 miami Alma made landfall near Cedar Key, Florida on May 25 as a tropical depression, and became extratropical two days later over North Carolina. Alma made landfall near  ,  on   as a tropical depression, and became extratropical    over  .
716 miami Although Alma passed just offshore, impact in Central America, if any, is unknown. Although  passed just offshore, impact in  , if any, is unknown.
717 miami In the Cayman Islands, winds of 65 mph (105 km/h) was reported. In the  , winds of  mph ( km/h) was reported.
718 miami Impact was severest in Cuba, where flash flooding caused seven fatalities, destroyed several homes, forced the evacuation of 3,000 people in Oriente Province, and resulted in a shutdown of 16 sugar mills. Impact was severest in , where flash flooding caused  fatalities, destroyed several homes, forced the evacuation of  people in  , and resulted in a shutdown of  sugar mills.
719 miami The storm brought light rainfall to Florida, peaking at  near Miami. The storm brought light rainfall to , peaking at  near .
720 miami Hazardous thunderstorms caused one death in Miami and damaged some roofs and building in Fort Myers. Hazardous thunderstorms caused  death in  and damaged some roofs and building in  .
721 miami In other states, impact was mostly in the form of rain, though a tornado near Columbia, South Carolina destroyed a roof. In other states, impact was mostly in the form of rain, though a tornado near ,   destroyed a roof.
722 miami In addition to the eight named storms of 1973 and two notable tropical depressions, there were several minor systems that were classified as depressions by the National Hurricane Center. In addition to the  named storms of  and  notable tropical depressions, there were several minor systems that were classified as depressions by the National Hurricane Center.
723 miami The first four systems of the year were not classified as fully tropical, rather they were associated with the remnants of decaying cold fronts. The   systems of   were not classified as fully tropical, rar y were associated with  remnants of decaying cold fronts.
724 miami On April 18, the first of these depressions formed northeast of the Bahamas and tracked in a curved motion before dissipating over open water on April 21. On  , the  of these depressions formed northeast of the  and tracked in a curved motion before dissipating over open water on  .
725 miami Several days later, on April 24, another depression formed in the same general region; however, this system was shorter lived and dissipated two days later without significant movement. , on  , another depression formed in the same general region; however, this system was shorter lived and dissipated    without significant movement.
726 miami On May 2, another partially tropical system formed over open waters. On  , another partially tropical system formed over open waters.
727 miami The cyclone tracked northeast and dissipated late on May 5 east-southeast of the Azores. The cyclone tracked northeast and dissipated late on   east-southeast of the Azores.
728 miami On May 11, a brief depression formed near Bermuda but dissipated the following day. On  , a brief depression formed near  but dissipated   .
729 miami Roughly a week into the official hurricane season, the fifth depression of the year formed just offshore southeast Florida, near Miami. Roughly   into  officil hurricne seson,   depression of  yer formed just offshore soust Florid, ner Mimi.
730 miami The system tracked northwest across the peninsula and briefly entered the Gulf of Mexico on June 8 before making landfall along the Florida Panhandle. The system tracked northwest across the peninsula and briefly entered the Gulf of  on    making landfall along the  .
731 miami The depression eventually dissipate on June 10 over South Carolina. The depression eventually dissipate on   over  .
732 miami A broad area of low pressure organized into a tropical depression off the coast of Nicaragua on October 9. A broad area of low pressure organized into a tropical depression off the coast of  on  .
733 miami After drifting to the southeast, it turned to the north-northwest and organized into a tropical storm on October 10. After drifting to the southeast, it turned to the north-northwest and organized into a tropical storm on  .
734 miami Subsequent to crossing western Cuba, Floyd accelerated to the northeast, and attained hurricane status late on October 12. Subsequent to crossing western ,  accelerated to the northeast, and attained hurricane status late on  .
735 miami It passed through the Florida Keys before entraining cooler, drier air from a stationary frontal boundary. It passed through the  Keys before entraining cooler, drier air from a stationary frontal boundary.
736 miami Its convection became very disorganized, and Floyd weakened back to a tropical storm early on October 13 to the southeast of Miami; the storm crossed the Bahamas, and becoming an extratropical cyclone before being absorbed by the frontal boundary on October 14. Its convection became very disorganized, and  weakened back to a tropical storm early on   to the southeast of ; the storm crossed the , and becoming an extratropical cyclone before being absorbed by the frontal boundary on  .
737 miami In the Bahamas, Andrew brought high tides, hurricane force winds, and tornadoes, which caused significant damage in the archipelago, especially on Cat Cays. In the ,  brought high tides, hurricane force winds, and tornadoes, which caused significant damage in the archipelago, especially on Cat Cays.
738 miami At least 800 houses were destroyed and left damage to the transport, communications, water, sanitation, agriculture, and fishing sectors. At least  houses were destroyed and left damage to the transport, communications, water, sanitation, agriculture, and fishing sectors.
739 miami Overall, Andrew caused four fatalities and $250 million (1992 USD) in damage in the Bahamas. Overall,  caused  fatalities and $250 million ( USD) in damage in the .
740 miami Throughout the southern portions of Florida, Andrew brought very high winds; a wind gust of 177 mph (282 km/h) was reported at a house in Perrine, Florida. Throughout the southern portions of ,  brought very high winds; a wind gust of  mph ( km/h) was reported at a house in , .
741 miami High winds caused catastrophic damage in Florida, especially in Miami-Dade County, where approximately 117,000 houses were either severely damaged or destroyed. High winds caused catastrophic damage in , especially in  , where approximately  houses were either severely damaged or destroyed.
742 miami In the Everglades, 70,000 acres (280 km2) of trees were knocked down and about 182 million fish were killed. In the ,  acres ( km2) of trees were knocked down and about   fish were killed.
743 miami Rainfall in Florida was moderate, peaking at  in western Miami-Dade County. Rainfall in  was moderate, peaking at  in western  .
744 miami Significant damage to oil platforms was reported, with one company losing 13 platforms, had 104 structures damaged, and five drilling wells blown off course. Significant damage to oil platforms was reported, with  company losing  platforms, had  structures damaged, and  drilling wells blown off course.
745 miami In Louisiana, Andrew produced hurricane force winds along its path, which left about 152,000 without electricity, downed 80% of trees in the Atchafalaya River Basin, and caused significant agricultural damage. In ,  produced hurricane force winds along its path, which left about  without electricity, downed 80% of trees in the   , and caused significant agricultural damage.
746 miami An F3 tornado in St. John the Baptist Parish damaged or destroyed 163 structures. An F3 tornado in   the   damaged or destroyed  structures.
747 miami 17 fatalities were reported in Louisiana, six of which were drowning victims offshore. fatalities were reported in ,  of which were drowning victims offshore.
748 miami Elsewhere, the storm spawned at least 28 tornadoes, especially in Alabama, Georgia, and Mississippi. Elsewhere, the storm spawned at least  tornadoes, especially in , , and .
749 miami Overall, Andrew caused 65 fatalities and $26 billion (1992 USD) in damage, making it the third costliest hurricane in U.S. history, behind only Hurricane Katrina in 2005 and Hurricane Ike in 2008. Overall,  caused  fatalities and $26 billion ( USD) in damage, making it the  costliest hurricane in  history, behind only Hurricane Katrina in  and Hurricane Ike in .
750 miami Following Calvin's closest approach, the Mexican Weather Service station in Manzanillo recorded a minimum barometric pressure of, as well as  surface winds as the center of Calvin passed a little to the west. Following 's closest approach, the    station in  recorded a minimum barometric pressure of, as well as  surface winds as the center of  passed a little to the west.
751 miami The Instituto Oceanografico del Pacifico in Manzanillo reported a minimum central pressure of . The     in  reported a minimum central pressure of .
752 miami Only two other reports of tropical storm force winds were reported on the Mexican mainland, besides Manzanillo, were reported in associated with Calvin. Only  other reports of tropical storm force winds were reported on the  mainland, besides , were reported in associated with .
753 miami In Calimo, sustained winds of  were observed at 1300 UTC. In , sustained winds of  were observed at  UTC.
754 miami Shortly thereafter, near 1545 UTC, sustained winds of  with gusts up to  were reported in the same location. Shortly thereafter, near  UTC, sustained winds of  with gusts up to  were reported in the same location.
755 miami Several ships reported rough weather during Calvin's existence, with the "Pacific Sandpiper" reporting a maximum wave height of . Several ships reported rough weather during 's existence, with the "Pacific Sandpiper" reporting a maximum wave height of .
756 miami In Acapulco, it is reported that waves in excess of  moved through the city. In , it is reported that waves in excess of  moved through the city.
757 miami In several states, heavy rainfall between  to  inches was recorded. In several states, heavy rainfall between  to  inches was recorded.
758 miami However, in Las Pilas, the highest rainfall total was observed, at . However, in  , the highest rainfall total was observed, at .
759 miami According to "The Miami Herald" and the "West Hawaii Today", Calvin is blamed for the death of 34 deaths, which includes both direct and indirect. According to "The  " and the "West Hawaii ",  is blamed for the death of  deaths, which includes both direct and indirect.
760 miami Most of the fatalities came from heavy rainfall associated with the system. Most of the fatalities came from heavy rainfall associated with the system.
761 miami A state of emergency was declared in at least ten states in Mexico following Calvin's passage, and the Mexican Defense Department said that 42,063 people were evacuated in eleven states. A state of emergency was declared in at least  states in  following 's passage, and the    said that  people were evacuated in  states.
762 miami Additionally, at least 1,600 people were left homeless. Additionally, at least  people were left homeless.
763 miami Finally, rough seas near Lazaro Cardenas caused all 4,000 tons of sulfuric acid to leak aboard the previously beached cargo tanker, "Betula". Finally, rough seas near   caused all  tons of sulfuric acid to leak aboard the  beached cargo tanker, "Betula".
764 miami While hurricanes are often seen as the biggest weather threat to Miami, tornadoes are relatively common in South Florida, although the vast majority of the tornadoes that strike Miami-Dade County are small, relatively weak F0 or F1 tornadoes. While hurricanes are often seen as the biggest weather threat to , tornadoes are relatively common in  , although the vast majority of the tornadoes that strike -Dade  are small, relatively weak F0 or F1 tornadoes.
765 miami Most of these tornadoes form as either waterspouts off Biscayne Bay, as part of the frequent afternoon thunderstorms, or spawned from a tropical storm or hurricane. Most of these tornadoes form as either waterspouts off  , as part of the frequent afternoon thunderstorms, or spawned from a tropical storm or hurricane.
766 miami Tornadoes can and have occurred in every month of the year in Miami-Dade County. Tornadoes can and have occurred in every month of the year in  .
767 miami The tornado formed in the afternoon (around 2:00 PM), initially touching down in the Silver Bluff Estates area. The tornado formed in the afternoon (around 2:00 PM), initially touching down in the Silver Bluff Estates area.
768 miami It then swept through Downtown, bypassing the city's skyscrapers. It then swept through , bypassing the city's skyscrapers.
769 miami It then crossed the MacArthur Causeway and the Venetian Causeway, towards Miami Beach, sideswiping a cruise ship. It then crossed the MacArthur  and the  , towards  , sideswiping a cruise ship.
770 miami The tornado lifted from the water halfway through Biscayne Bay and touched down briefly again in Miami Beach, flipping over a car and then dissipating. The tornado lifted from the water halfway through   and touched down briefly again in  , flipping over a car and then dissipating.
771 miami The Storm Prediction Center in Oklahoma had predicted tornadoes in the area and warned that there might be more to come. The Storm Prediction Center in  had predicted tornadoes in the area and warned that there might be more to come.
