0 philadelphia The "1783 New Jersey earthquake" occurred on November 30, 1783 in the U.S. state of New Jersey. The "   earthquake" occurred on    in the  state of  .
1 philadelphia Measuring 5.3 on the Richter scale, it stands as the most powerful earthquake to occur in the state. Measuring  on the  scale, it stands as the most powerful earthquake to occur in the state.
2 philadelphia Shaking was felt from New Hampshire to Pennsylvania. Shaking was felt from   to .
3 philadelphia A brief foreshock occurred at 02:00 UTC on November 30 and an aftershock five hours later were reported only in New York and in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. A brief foreshock occurred at 02:00 UTC on   and an aftershock    were reported only in   and in , .
4 philadelphia The earthquake caused intensity VII damage on the Mercalli scale. The earthquake caused intensity VII damage on the Mercalli scale.
5 philadelphia The "1815 Philadelphia train accident" occurred on 31 July 1815, in Philadelphia, County Durham, England, when an early experimental railway locomotive, Brunton's Mechanical Traveller, suffered a boiler explosion. The "  train accident" occurred on   , in ,  , , when an early experimental railway locomotive, 's  , suffered a boiler explosion.
6 philadelphia This engine, also known as the Steam Horse, ran on four wheels but was pushed by mechanical feet. This engine, also known as the Steam Horse, ran on  wheels but was pushed by mechanical feet.
7 philadelphia This was both the first recorded boiler explosion and the first railway accident causing major loss of life, as 16 people were killed [some sources state 13]. This was both the  recorded boiler explosion and the  railway accident causing major loss of life, as  people were killed [some sources state ].
8 philadelphia The accident is not included in many texts because it was on an industrial waggonway or plateway, rather than a public railway. The accident is not included in many texts because it was on an industrial waggonway or plateway, rather than a public railway.
9 philadelphia Nevertheless, it predated William Huskisson's death at Edge Hill by 15 years, and the death toll was not exceeded by any railway accident until 1842 worldwide (see Versailles train crash), and 1861 in the UK (Clayton Tunnel). Nevertheless, it predated  's death at   by  , and the death toll was not exceeded by any railway accident until  worldwide (see  train crash), and  in the  ( ).
10 philadelphia It also killed more people than any other railway boiler explosion of all time. It also killed more people than any other railway boiler explosion of all time.
11 philadelphia Most boiler explosions caused severe mechanical damage but often only the locomotive crew suffered physically; however, Brunton's locomotive was surrounded at the time by a crowd of curious sightseers, who formed the majority of the victims. Most boiler explosions caused severe mechanical damage but often only the locomotive crew suffered physically; however, 's locomotive was surrounded at the time by a crowd of curious sightseers, who formed the majority of the victims.
12 philadelphia The first high-pressure steam locomotive, Trevithick's Penydarren engine, had only appeared 11 years earlier in 1804, and engineering understanding of the forces and safety risks involved was still primitive. The  high-pressure steam locomotive, 's Penydarren enge, had only appeared     , and engeerg understandg of the forces and safety risks volved was still primitive.
13 philadelphia Upon making landfall on Cape May, New Jersey, the cyclone produced a 5 foot (1.5 m) storm surge on the Delaware Bay side of the city. Upon making landfall on Cape ,  , the cyclone produced a  foot (1. m) storm surge on the   side of the city.
14 philadelphia Lasting for several hours, the hurricane force winds were described as "[blowing] with great violence", causing widespread devastation across the region. Lasting for  , the hurricane force winds were described as "[blowing] with great violence", causing widespread devastation across the region.
15 philadelphia In Little Egg Harbor, its passage caused damage to the port. In   , its passage caused damage to the port.
16 philadelphia Strong winds reached as far inland as Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where winds of over 40 mph (60 km/h) downed trees and chimneys; in the city, precipitation accrued to 3.92 inches (99.6 mm). Strong winds reached as far inland as , , where winds of over  mph ( km/h) downed trees and chimneys; in the city, precipitation accrued to  inches ( mm).
17 philadelphia Further to the north, the hurricane destroyed a windmill at Bergen Point, New Jersey. Further to the north, the hurricane destroyed a windmill at  ,  .
18 philadelphia Though the hurricane struck at low tide, it produced a storm surge of over 29 feet (9 m) along several portions of the New Jersey coastline, causing significant overwash. Though the hurricane struck at low tide, it produced a storm surge of over  feet ( m) along several portions of the   coastline, causing significant overwash.
19 philadelphia A "refinery owned by Gulf Oil Corporation in Philadelphia", located at Girard Point on the Schuylkill River in South Philadelphia, caught fire on August 17, 1975. A "refinery owned by    in " located at   on the   in   caught fire on   .
20 philadelphia This incident resulted in the death of eight firefighters of the Philadelphia Fire Department, injuries to 14 other firefighters, and the loss of Philadelphia fire apparatus. This incident resulted in the death of  firefighters of the   , injuries to  other firefighters, and the loss of  fire apparatus.
21 philadelphia As the fire swept rapidly eastward along 5th Street, Philadelphia’s foam pumpers, Engines 160 and 133, and the Gulf Refinery foam pumper were rapidly destroyed in the fire’s advance. As the fire swept rapidly eastward along  Street, ’s foam pumpers, Engines  and , and the Gulf Refinery foam pumper were rapidly destroyed in the fire’s advance.
22 philadelphia At 5th Street, where Engines 16 and 40 had been assigned to improve drainage, their pieces were also destroyed in the fire’s path, although their pump operators were able to escape. At  Street, where Engines  and  had been assigned to improve drainage, their pieces were also destroyed in the fire’s path, although their pump operators were able to escape.
23 philadelphia Upon reaching 5th Street, the fire traveled two city blocks north along 5th Street, threatening four additional storage tanks and the  Penrose Avenue Bridge. Upon reaching  Street, the fire traveled  city blocks north along  Street, threatening  additional storage tanks and the  Penrose Avenue Bridge.
24 philadelphia It was now 4:41 p.m. and a firestorm was now developing as the fire quickly spread eastward along Avenue “Y” towards 5th Street. It was  4:41 p.m. and a firestorm was  developing as the fire quickly spread eastward along Avenue “Y” towards  Street.
25 philadelphia Viewing the unfolding horror before him, Commissioner Rizzo ordered two more alarms, five additional rescue squads, and the recall of all companies which had previously been released from the firegrounds throughout the day. Viewing  unfolding horror before him, Commissioner  ordered  more alarms,  additional rescue squads, and  recall of all companies which had  been released from  firegrounds throughout  .
26 philadelphia On these orders, the fire alarm room transmitted the seventh and eighth alarms. On these orders, the fire alarm room transmitted the    alarms.
27 philadelphia As the fire had been placed under control nearly eight hours earlier, firefighters in stations across the city knew that the unthinkable had occurred as these additional alarms were struck. As the fire had been placed under control    , firefighters in stations across the city knew that the unthinkable had occurred as these additional alarms were struck.
28 philadelphia At 4:46 p.m., Commissioner Rizzo ordered the ninth alarm and notification of Philadelphia Managing Director Hillel Levinson as a major disaster was now unfolding at the Gulf Refinery. At 4:46 p.m., Commissioner  ordered the  alarm and notification of  Managing Director   as a major disaster was  unfolding at the Gulf Refinery.
29 philadelphia At 6:04 a.m., upon receiving the report of fire from the Gulf Refinery, the Philadelphia Fire Department transmitted the refinery’s fire alarm box: Box 5988, Penrose and Lanier Avenues. At 6:04 a.m., upon receiving the report of fire from the Gulf Refinery, the    transmitted the refinery’s fire alarm box: Box ,  and  Avenues.
30 philadelphia Upon leaving their station, Engine 60 (the assigned first-due engine company) could see fire and smoke conditions at a distance, and before arriving at the refinery, Engine 60 ordered the second alarm at 6:09 a.m. Upon leaving their station, Engine  (the assigned first-due engine company) could see fire and smoke conditions at a distance, and before arriving at the refinery, Engine  ordered the  alarm at 6:09 a.m.
31 philadelphia It occurred on July 27, 1976 at the Bellevue Stratford Hotel in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where members of the American Legion, a United States military veterans association, had gathered for the American Bicentennial. It occurred on    at the    in   where members of the   a   military veterans association had gathered for the  Bicentennial.
32 philadelphia Within two days of the event’s start, veterans began falling ill with a then-unidentified pneumonia. Within   of the event’s start, veterans began falling ill with a then-unidentified pneumonia.
33 philadelphia They were tachypneic and complained of chest pain. They were tachypneic and complained of chest pain.
34 philadelphia As many as 221 people were given medical treatment, and 34 deaths occurred. As many as  people were given medical treatment, and  deaths occurred.
35 philadelphia At the time, the U.S. was debating the risk of a possible swine flu epidemic, and this incident prompted the passage of a national swine flu vaccination program. At the time, the  was debating the risk of a possible swine flu epidemic, and this incident prompted the passage of a national swine flu vaccination program.
36 philadelphia That cause was ruled out, and research continued for months, with various theories discussed in scientific and mass media that ranged from toxic chemicals to terrorism (domestic or foreign) aimed at the veterans. That cause was ruled out, and research continued for , with various theories discussed in scientific and mass media that ranged from toxic chemicals to terrorism (domestic or foreign) aimed at the veterans.
37 philadelphia Other memorials to the victims of the Beirut barracks bombing have been erected in various locations within the United States, including one at Penn's Landing in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and one in Florida. Other memorials to the victims of the  barracks bombing have been erected in various locations within the  , including  at 's Landing in , sylvania, and  in .
38 philadelphia Additionally, a Lebanese cedar has been planted in Arlington National Cemetery near the graves of some of the victims of the attack, in their memory. Additionally, a  cedar has been planted in  National Cemetery near the graves of some of the victims of the attack, in their memory.
39 philadelphia A plaque in the ground in front of the tree, dedicated in a ceremony on the first anniversary of the attack, reads: "Let peace take root: This cedar of Lebanon tree grows in living memory of the Americans killed in the Beirut terrorist attack and all victims of terrorism around the world." A plaque in the ground in front of the tree, dedicated in a ceremony on the  anniversary of the attack, reads: "Let peace take root: This cedar of  tree grows in living memory of the  killed in the  terrorist attack and all victims of terrorism around the world."
40 philadelphia The National Museum of the Marine Corps, in Quantico, Virginia, unveiled an exhibit in 2008 in memory of the attack and its victims. The National Museum of the  , in , , unveiled an exhibit in  in memory of the attack and its victims.
41 philadelphia The "1999 Athens earthquake", registering a moment magnitude of 6.0, occurred on September 7, 1999, at 2:56:50 pm local time and lasted approximately 15 seconds in Ano Liosia. The "  earthquake" registering a moment magnitude of  occurred on    at 2:56:50 pm local time and lasted approximately   in  .
42 philadelphia The tremor was epicentered approximately 17 km to the northwest of the city center, in a sparsely populated area between the working-class town of Acharnes and the Mount Parnitha National Park. The tremor was epicentered approximately  km to the northwest of the city center, in a sparsely populated area between the working-class town of  and the    .
43 philadelphia This proximity to the Athens Metropolitan Area resulted in widespread structural damage, mainly to the nearby towns of Ano Liossia, Acharnes, Fyli and Thrakomakedones as well as to the northern Athenian suburbs of Kifissia, Metamorfosi, Kamatero and Nea Philadelphia. This proximity to the  Metropolitan Area resulted in widespread structural damage, mainly to the nearby towns of  , Acharnes,  and  as well as to the northern  suburbs of , ,  and  .
44 philadelphia More than 100 buildings (including three major factories) across those areas collapsed trapping scores of victims under their rubble while dozens more were severely damaged. More than  buildings (including  major factories) across those areas collapsed trapping scores of victims under their rubble while dozens more were severely damaged.
45 philadelphia Overall, 143 people lost their lives and more than 2,000 were treated for injuries in what eventually became Greece's deadliest natural disaster in almost half a century. Overll,  people lost their lives nd more thn  were treted for injuries in wht eventully becme 's dedliest nturl disster in lmost hlf  .
46 philadelphia This event took Greek seismologists by surprise as it came from a previously unknown fault, originating in an area that was for a long time considered of a particularly low seismicity. This event took  seismologists by surprise as it came from a  unknown fault, originating in an area that was for a long time considered of a particularly low seismicity.
47 philadelphia The highest recorded peak ground acceleration was 0.3g, at 15 km from the epicentre, with attenuation predicting 0.6g acceleration at the centre. The highest recorded peak ground acceleration was g, at  km from the epicentre, with attenuation predicting g acceleration at the centre.
48 philadelphia Although many heat related deaths go unreported, by July 19, the Associated Press reported that the soaring heat was blamed for 12 deaths from Oklahoma City to the Philadelphia area. Although many heat related deaths go unreported, by  , the   reported that the soaring heat was blamed for  deaths from   to the  area.
49 philadelphia Reports by early morning July 20 raised the death toll to at least 16 in seven states. Reports by early morning   raised the death toll to at least  in  states.
50 philadelphia As of July 22, 2009, the New Jersey Government has confirmed 936 cases of swine flu and 480 probable cases, most of them within a range of 30 minutes of New York or Philadelphia. As of    the  Jersey Government has confirmed  cases of swine flu and  probable cases most of them within a range of   of   or .
51 philadelphia More swine flu cases are being reported daily, which has caused a widespread in the state. More swine flu cases are being reported daily, which has caused a widespread in the state.
52 philadelphia Counties currently confirmed with swine flu: Atlantic (20), Bergen (63), Burlington (64), Camden (35), Cape May (3), Cumberland (17), Essex (105), Gloucester (12), Hudson (85), Hunterdon(17), Mercer (47), Middlesex (115), Monmouth (60), Morris (45), Ocean (48), Passaic (63), Salem (3), Somerset (37), Sussex (13), Union (62), Warren (22), which indicates that currently 21 counties have confirmed cases of swine flu. Counties  confirmed with swine flu:  (),  (),  (),  (),   (),  (),  (),  (),  (), (),  (),  (),  (),  (),  (),  (),  (),  (7),  (1), Union (),  (), which indicates that   counties have confirmed cases of swine flu.
53 philadelphia "Pennsylvania:" Trembling was felt in buildings in Philadelphia and Pittsburgh and across the state. ":" Trembling was felt in buildings in  and  and across the state.
54 philadelphia In Center City Philadelphia, a window shattered on a lower floor at the Independence Blue Cross building, and the company sent its 3,000 employees home for the day. In   , a window shattered on a lower floor at     building, and  company sent its  employees home for  .
55 philadelphia Other office buildings in Center City Philadelphia were also evacuated following the earthquake. Other office buildings in    were also evacuated following the earthquake.
56 philadelphia Workers at the PPL Corporation in Allentown evacuated the building. Workers at the   in  evacuated the building.
57 philadelphia However, the Three Mile Island nuclear plant south of Harrisburg continued to operate during the earthquake. However, the    nuclear plant south of  continued to operate during the earthquake.
58 philadelphia The Bucks County Courthouse in Doylestown was evacuated following the earthquake. The Bucks County Courthouse in  was evacuated following the earthquake.
59 philadelphia In Philadelphia, SEPTA Regional Rail trains were restricted to a speed of  while tracks were inspected for damage, and PATCO Speedline trains were briefly suspended, with no damage reported. In ,    trains were restricted to a speed of  while tracks were inspected for damage, and  Speedline trains were briefly suspended, with no damage reported.
60 philadelphia The Pennsylvania Department of Transportation inspected bridges across the state for damage. The     inspected bridges across the state for damage.
61 philadelphia The Delaware River Port Authority reported no damage to its four bridges across the Delaware River. The     reported no damage to its  bridges across the  .
62 philadelphia Historical records list up to fifteen towns and cities that were destroyed or damaged by the earthquake: Sardis, Magnesia, Temnos, Philadelphia, Aegae, Apollonis, Mostene, Hyrkanis, Hierapolis, Myrina, Cyme, Tmolus, Pergamon, Ephesus and Kibyra. Historical records list up to  towns and cities that were destroyed or damaged by the earthquake: , , Temnos, , Aegae, Apollonis, Mostene, , Hierapolis, , Cyme, Tmolus, ,  and .
63 philadelphia Of these, Pergamon, Ephesus and Kibyra are not mentioned by Tacitus. Of these, ,  and  are not mentioned by .
64 philadelphia The record of damage at both Ephesus and Kibyra may refer instead to an earthquake in AD 23. The record of damage at both  and  may refer instead to an earthquake in AD .
65 philadelphia In Pergamon the Heroon of Diodoros Pasparos was remodelled after the earthquake. In  the Heroon of   was remodelled after the earthquake.
66 philadelphia After the police got inside the schoolhouse, all of the wounded girls were taken to hospitals. After the police got inside the schoolhouse, all of the wounded girls were taken to hospitals.
67 philadelphia Two had died at the school house, one was pronounced dead on arrival at Lancaster General Hospital, and two sisters survived until the early hours of October 3 when they were taken off of life support. had died at  school house,  was pronounced dead on arrival at   , and  sisters survived until       when y were taken f  life support.
68 philadelphia All of the victims that survived the immediate attack were brought to Lancaster General Hospital, stabilized, and then transferred to hospitals with pediatric trauma care. All of the victims that survived the immediate attack were brought to   , stabilized, and then transferred to hospitals with pediatric trauma care.
69 philadelphia Three of the children were admitted to Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, four to Children's Hospital of Philadelphia and one to Christiana Hospital in Newark, Delaware, reported a state police spokesman. of the children were admitted to     ,  to Children's  of  and  to   in , , reported a state police spokesman.
70 philadelphia One of the surviving children was initially transported to The Reading Hospital and Medical Center via helicopter, and then transported to the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia after being stabilized. of the surviving children was initially transported to The Reading Hospital and Medical Center via helicopter, and then transported to the Children's Hospital of  after being stabilized.
71 philadelphia Several factions within the Philadelphia family began conspiring to betray the aging Bruno. Several factions within the  family began conspiring to betray the aging .
72 philadelphia On March 21, 1980, the 69 year-old Bruno was killed by a shotgun blast in the back of the head as he sat in his car. On    the  year-old  was killed by a shotgun blast in the back of the head as he sat in his car.
73 philadelphia It is believed that the killing was ordered by Antonio Caponigro (aka Tony Bananas), Bruno's consigliere. It is believed that the killing was ordered by   (aka Tony Bananas), 's consigliere.
74 philadelphia A few weeks later, Caponigro's body was found stuffed in a body bag in the trunk of a car in New York City. , 's body was found stuffed in a body bag in the trunk of a car in   .
75 philadelphia About $300 in bills were jammed in his mouth and anus (to be interpreted as signs of greed). About $300 in bills were jammed in his mouth and anus (to be interpreted as signs of greed).
76 philadelphia The Commission had reportedly ordered Caponigro's murder because he assassinated Bruno without their sanction. The Commission had reportedly ordered 's murder because he assassinated  without their sanction.
77 philadelphia Other Philadelphia family members involved in Bruno's murder were tortured and killed. Other  family members involved in 's murder were tortured and killed.
78 philadelphia Scripps daughters noticed that Douglas started drinking more heavily  and became erratically violent towards their mother, openly hitting her in public on at least one occasion. daughters noticed that  started drinking more heavily  and became erratically violent towards their mother, openly hitting her in public on at least  occasion.
79 philadelphia Both Alex and Annie advised their mother to file for divorce and get an order of eviction to have him removed from their home. Both  and  advised their mother to file for divorce and get an order of eviction to have him removed from their home.
80 philadelphia In 1991, Scripps took Tori and moved in with Alex. In ,  took  and moved in with
81 philadelphia She had changed her will and moved back in for fear that Douglas would take Tori and flee. She had changed her will and moved back in for fear that  would take  and flee.
82 philadelphia During the holidays, Scripps discovered Douglas had removed files such as Tori's birth certificate and other records from the house. During the holidays,  discovered  had removed files such as 's birth certificate and other records from the house.
83 philadelphia Scripps and her two eldest daughters began documenting and keeping records of the assaults, and went on December 6, 1993 to obtain an eviction notice; however, the judge refused to order his eviction. Scripps and her  eldest daughters began documenting and keeping records of the assaults and went on    to obtain an eviction notice; however the judge refused to order his eviction.
84 philadelphia Scripps told a friend that she began sleeping with a hammer under her bed because Douglas new method of abuse is to wake her up in the middle of the night to scare and berate her. told a friend that she began sleeping with a hammer under her bed because  new method of abuse is to wake her up in the middle of the night to scare and berate her.
85 philadelphia On December 31, 1993 Scripps, 47 years old, who was asleep across the hall from her 3 year old daughter Tori, was bludgeoned with a hammer by her husband of 5 years Scott Douglas, 38 years old. On        who was asleep across the hall from her    daughter  was bludgeoned with a hammer by her husband of     8  .
86 philadelphia Scripps daughter Anne had called the police on January 1, 1994 at 3:30 am, because she was unable to get into contact with her mother or Douglas, the police arrived and knocked down the locked door, and found Scripps unconscious in bed, her sheets soaked in blood, her terrier puppy next to her trying to comfort her. daughter  had called the police on   994 at 3:30 am because she was unable to get into contact with her mother or  the police arrived and knocked down the locked door and found  unconscious in bed her sheets soaked in blood her terrier puppy next to her trying to comfort her.
87 philadelphia Across the hall Tori, then 3 years old had witnessed the crime that left her mother's skull irreparably broken. Across the hall , then    had witnessed the crime that left her mother's skull irreparably broken.
88 philadelphia Tori Douglas was reported as saying, "Daddy gave Mommy boo-boos. was reported as saying, "Daddy gave Mommy boo-boos.
89 philadelphia Daddy gave Mommy many boo-boos. Daddy gave Mommy many boo-boos.
90 philadelphia Why is Mommy wearing warpaint?" Why is Mommy wearing warpaint?"
91 philadelphia Immediately the police began searching for Scott Douglas, in a matter of hours Douglas' 1982 BMW was found on the Tappan Zee Bridge with the bloody hammer inside, the authorities dragged the Hudson River for him, but still operated under the assumption he was still alive. Immediately the police began searching for  , in a matter of  '  BMW was found on the Tappan Zee Bridge with the bloody hammer inside, the authorities dragged the   for him, but still operated under the assumption he was still alive.
92 philadelphia As Scripps lay in the  hospital, her first husband, Anthony Morrell, who was in the terminal stages of cirrhosis of the liver and had been hospitalized near Philadelphia, left his hospital bed to be at her side. As  lay in the  hospital, her  husband,  , who was in the terminal stages of cirrhosis of the liver and had been hospitalized near , left his hospital bed to be at her side.
93 philadelphia A week after the attack —two days after the authorities stopped dragging the Hudson for Douglas's body— Scripps was taken off life support and died without regaining consciousness. after the attack —  after the authorities stopped dragging the  for 's body—  was taken off life support and died without regaining consciousness.
94 philadelphia In her death, she was able to give her liver, which was transplanted into her ex husband, Anthony Morrell, saving his life. In her death, she was able to give her liver, which was transplanted into her ex husband,  , saving his life.
95 philadelphia "Her daughters acted on what they knew would be their mother's wishes," said family attorney, "Anne left this world the way she lived in it-- loving and giving." "Her daughters acted on what they knew would be their mother's wishes," said family attorney, " left this world the way she lived in it-- loving and giving."
96 philadelphia Her throat was cut from left to right, and she had been disembowelled, with her intestines thrown out of her abdomen over each of her shoulders. Her throat was cut from left to right, and she had been disembowelled, with her intestines thrown out of her abdomen over each of her shoulders.
97 philadelphia The morgue examination revealed that part of her uterus was missing. The morgue examination revealed that part of her uterus was missing.
98 philadelphia Chapman's protruding tongue and swollen face led Dr Phillips to think that she may have been asphyxiated with the handkerchief around her neck before her throat was cut. 's protruding tongue and swollen face led Dr  to think that she may have been asphyxiated with the handkerchief around her neck before her throat was cut.
99 philadelphia As there was no blood trail leading to the yard, he was certain that she was killed where she was found. As there was no blood trail leading to the yard, he was certain that she was killed where she was found.
100 philadelphia He concluded that she suffered from a long-standing lung disease, that the victim was sober at the time of death, and had not consumed alcoholic beverages for at least some hours before it. He concluded that she suffered from a long-standing lung disease, that the victim was sober at the time of death, and had not consumed alcoholic beverages for at least some  before it.
101 philadelphia Phillips was of the opinion that the murderer must have possessed anatomical knowledge to have sliced out the reproductive organs in a single movement with a blade about 6–8 inches (15–20 cm) long. was of the opinion that the murderer must have possessed anatomical knowledge to have sliced out the reproductive organs in a single movement with a blade about – inches (– cm) long.
102 philadelphia However, the idea that the murderer possessed surgical skill was dismissed by other experts. However, the idea that the murderer possessed surgical skill was dismissed by other experts.
103 philadelphia As her body was not examined extensively at the scene, it has also been suggested that the organ was removed by mortuary staff, who took advantage of bodies that had already been opened to extract organs that they could then sell as surgical specimens. As her body was not examined extensively at the scene, it has also been suggested that the organ was removed by mortuary staff, who took advantage of bodies that had already been opened to extract organs that they could then sell as surgical specimens.
104 philadelphia In his summing up, Coroner Baxter raised the possibility that Chapman was murdered deliberately to obtain the uterus, on the basis that an American had made inquiries at a London medical school for the purchase of such organs. In his summing up,   raised the possibility that  was murdered deliberately to obtain the uterus, on the basis that an  had made inquiries at a  medical school for the purchase of such organs.
105 philadelphia "The Lancet" rejected Baxter's suggestion scathingly, pointed out "certain improbabilities and absurdities", and said it was "a grave error of judgement". "The Lancet" rejected 's suggestion scathingly, pointed out "certain improbabilities and absurdities", and said it was "a grave error of judgement".
106 philadelphia The "British Medical Journal" was similarly dismissive, and reported that the physician who requested the samples was a highly reputable doctor, unnamed, who had left the country 18 months before the murder. The "British Medical Journal" was similarly dismissive, and reported that the physician who requested the samples was a highly reputable doctor, unnamed, who had left the country   before the murder.
107 philadelphia Baxter dropped the theory and never referred to it again. dropped the theory and never referred to it again.
108 philadelphia The "Chicago Tribune" claimed the American doctor was from Philadelphia, and author Philip Sugden later speculated that the man in question was the notorious Francis Tumblety. The " " claimed the  doctor was from , and author   later speculated that the man in question was the notorious  .
109 philadelphia Severely injured and losing consciousness, Kramish declined the assistance of a priest who was offering to administer Last Rites. Severely injured and losing consciousness,  declined the assistance of a priest who was offering to administer Last Rites.
110 philadelphia While recuperating from the severe burns from the incident at a Philadelphia naval hospital, his mother came to visit him by train from Denver, carrying with her a jar of chicken soup on the three-day trip, which she fed him upon her arrival at the hospital, which Kramish would credit for his unexpected recovery. While recuperating from the severe burns from the incident at a  naval hospital, his mother came to visit him by train from , carrying with her a jar of chicken soup on the  trip, which she fed him upon her arrival at the hospital, which  would credit for his unexpected recovery.
111 philadelphia Despite wartime censorship of any details of the incident and secret classification after the war ended, Kramish lobbied the government to memorialize the victims of the accident. Despite wartime censorship of any details of the incident and secret classification after the war ended,  lobbied the government to memorialize the victims of the accident.
112 philadelphia Because it was a great impediment to Confederate commerce and warfare, there was no choice but to try to lift the Union blockade in any way possible. Because it was a great impediment to  commerce and warfare, there was no choice but to try to lift the Union blockade in any way possible.
113 philadelphia CSS "David" was one of the South's secret weapons. "David" was  of the South's secret weapons.
114 philadelphia Similar to the submarine "H.L. Hunley", the boat was designed to destroy enemy ships by stealthily sneaking up to their sides and placing an explosive on their hulls. Similar to the submarine "H.L. Hunley", the boat was designed to destroy enemy ships by stealthily sneaking up to their sides and placing an explosive on their hulls.
115 philadelphia The "David" was only fifty feet long with a beam of six feet and a draft of five feet. The "David" was only  feet long with a beam of  feet and a draft of  feet.
116 philadelphia Her crew consisted of just four officers and men. Her crew consisted of just  officers and men.
117 philadelphia She was under the command of Lieutenant William T. Glassell during her three year career. She was under the command of Lieutenant    during her   career.
118 philadelphia On the night of October 5, at about 8:00 am the torpedo boat headed out from the pier toward the fourteen gun ironclad USS "New Ironsides", which was considered the most formidable warship in the navy. On the night of  , at about 8:00 am the torpedo boat headed out from the pier toward the  gun ironclad USS "New Ironsides", which was considered the most formidable warship in the navy.
119 philadelphia She had also survived a failed torpedo boat attack in August 1863. She had also survived a failed torpedo boat attack in  .
120 philadelphia An hour later the rebels were approaching the ironclad when lookouts spotted them fifty yards away, just before they attached the torpedo. the rebels were approaching the ironclad when lookouts spotted them  yards away, just before they attached the torpedo.
121 philadelphia The Union commander Captain Stephen C. Rowan reported the following: ""At 9 p.m. discovered a very peculiar looking steamer which at first appeared like a boat standing toward our starboard beam from seaward; hailed her rapidly four times, and she making no reply, fired into her with musketry; she returned fire, dangerously wounding Ensign C.W. The Union commander Captain    reported the following: ""At 9 p.m. discovered a very peculiar looking steamer which at  appeared like a boat standing toward our starboard beam from seaward; hailed her rapidly  times, and she making no reply, fired into her with musketry; she returned fire, dangerously wounding  W.
122 philadelphia Howard in charge of the deck the steamer struck us near No. 6 port, starboard side, exploding a large torpedo, shaking the vessel and throwing up an immense column of water, part of which fell on our decks."" in charge of the deck the steamer struck us near No.  port, starboard side, exploding a large torpedo, shaking the vessel and throwing up an immense column of water, part of which fell on our decks.""
123 philadelphia When the water fell back, some of it went down the "David"s smokestack and put out the fire in her engine. When the water fell back, some of it went down the ""s smokestack and put out the fire in her engine.
124 philadelphia The explosion ripped a large fissure in the ironclad's starboard quarter and her crew had to quickly repair the hole but the ship remained leaky. The explosion ripped a large fissure in the ironclad's starboard quarter and her crew had to quickly repair the hole but the ship remained leaky.
125 philadelphia Damage was also inflicted to the ship's armory bulkhead and some storerooms, but casualties were light. Damage was also inflicted to the ship's armory bulkhead and some storerooms, but casualties were light.
126 philadelphia There were two wounded, one of whom later died, and a third man who suffered from "confusions". There were  wounded,  of whom later died, and a  man who suffered from "confusions".
127 philadelphia CSS "David" was heavily damaged, enough for her commander to order his men to abandon ship. "David" was heavily damaged, enough for her commander to order his men to abandon ship.
128 philadelphia Ensign C. W. Cannon could not swim so he remained aboard and after the others left they tried to swim for nearby Morris Island under fire. could not swim so he remained aboard and after the others left they tried to swim for nearby   under fire.
129 philadelphia It was at this time Assistant Engineer J. H. Tomb decided to go back to the torpedo boat where he restarted the fire and sailed away. It was at this time Assistant Engineer    decided to go back to the torpedo boat where he restarted the fire and sailed away.
130 philadelphia The remaining two Confederates, including Lieutenant Glassel, surrendered to the men of "New Ironsides" after evacuating the "David". The remaining  Confederates, including Lieutenant , surrendered to the men of "New Ironsides" after evacuating the "David".
131 philadelphia "New Ironsides" was apparently not in threat of sinking and the damage proved to be mostly superficial. "New Ironsides" was apparently not in threat of sinking and the damage proved to be mostly superficial.
132 philadelphia She returned to blockade duty after taking a short time in Philadelphia to make repairs. She returned to blockade duty after taking a short time in  to make repairs.
133 philadelphia CSS "David" was repaired as well and she eventually made attacks on USS "Memphis" and USS "Wabash". "David" was repaired as well and she eventually made attacks on USS "Memphis" and USS "Wabash".
134 philadelphia Several torpedo boats of the "David" class were captured at the end of the war. Several torpedo boats of the "David" class were captured at the end of the war.
135 philadelphia The "David" may have been among them. The "David" may have been among them.
136 philadelphia Penelope Detweiler was the only daughter of Richard Detweiler, the majority stockholder in Nesfoods. was the only daughter of  , the majority stockholder in .
137 philadelphia She was involved with Anthony DeZito, "Tony the Zee," and was present when DeZito was murdered. She was involved with  , "Tony the Zee," and was  when  was murdered.
138 philadelphia Her relationship with DeZito led to her addiction to heroin. Her relationship with  led to her addiction to heroin.
139 philadelphia She was hospitalized in a private sanitarium in Nevada. She was hospitalized in a private sanitarium in .
140 philadelphia When she returned to Philadelphia, Detweiler had a brief relationship with Matt Payne. When she returned to ,  had a brief relationship with  .
141 philadelphia She died of a heroin overdose in "The Murderers". She died of a heroin overdose in "The Murderers".
142 philadelphia The Great Baltimore Fire in 1904 burned for thirty hours straight and decimated a major part of central Baltimore, including over 1,500 buildings. The Great  Fire in  burned for   straight and decimated a major part of central , including over  buildings.
143 philadelphia Mutual aid companies from as far away as Washington D.C., Philadelphia and New York City were called in to assist. Mutual aid companies from as far away as  ,  and    were called in to assist.
144 philadelphia The fire led to uniform national standards in fire fighting equipment and protocols. The fire led to uniform national standards in fire fighting equipment and protocols.
145 philadelphia As with other large fires of the time, it was a predecessor to the stringent fire codes of today. As with other large fires of the time, it was a predecessor to the stringent fire codes of .
146 philadelphia In 1750 he published a proposal for an experiment to prove that lightning is electricity by flying a kite in a storm that appeared capable of becoming a lightning storm. In  he published a proposal for an experiment to prove that lightning is electricity by flying a kite in a storm that appeared capable of becoming a lightning storm.
147 philadelphia On May 10, 1752 Thomas-François Dalibard of France conducted Franklin's experiment using a -tall iron rod instead of a kite, and he extracted electrical sparks from a cloud. On      of  conducted 's experiment using a -tall iron rod instead of a kite and he extracted electrical sparks from a cloud.
148 philadelphia On June 15 Franklin may possibly have conducted his famous kite experiment in Philadelphia, successfully extracting sparks from a cloud. On    may possibly have conducted his famous kite experiment in , successfully extracting sparks from a cloud.
149 philadelphia Franklin's experiment was not written up with credit until Joseph Priestley's 1767 "History and Present Status of Electricity"; the evidence shows that Franklin was insulated (not in a conducting path, where he would have been in danger of electrocution). 's experiment was not written up with credit until  's  "History and  Status of Electricity"; the evidence shows that  was insulated (not in a conducting path, where he would have been in danger of electrocution).
150 philadelphia Others, such as Prof. Georg Wilhelm Richmann were indeed electrocuted during the months following Franklin's experiment. Ors, such as Prof.    were indeed electrocuted during   following 's experiment.
151 philadelphia Although her term was largely consumed by oversight of federally funded programs, upon assuming office as Deputy Director of the ONDCP, Madras became aware of a newly emerging threat, fentanyl overdose deaths in heroin addicts. Although her term was largely consumed by oversight of federally funded programs, upon assuming office as Deputy Director of the ,  became aware of a newly emerging threat, fentanyl overdose deaths in heroin addicts.
152 philadelphia She rapidly organized a conference in Philadelphia with treatment providers, emergency responders, emergency room professionals, law enforcement officials, representatives from city governments, other healthcare professionals,  to create a coordinated response to eliminate this threat to life. She rapidly organized a conference in  with treatment providers, emergency responders, emergency room professionals, law enforcement officials, representatives from city governments, other healthcare professionals,  to create a coordinated response to eliminate this threat to life.
153 philadelphia Within months and for a number of reasons, fentanyl overdose deaths declined rapidly. Within  and for a number of reasons, fentanyl overdose deaths declined rapidly.
154 philadelphia Of over 170 media events and interviews during her term, she gave two interviews on Narcan distribution to heroin addicts and friends. Of over  media events and interviews during her term, she gave  interviews on  distribution to heroin addicts and friends.
155 philadelphia At that time, she strongly supported narcan rescue by trained healthcare personnel, but opposed distribution to heroin users and their friends, of overdose rescue kits of opiate-antidote naloxone (Narcan) in i.v. or nasal spray form. At that time, she strongly supported narcan rescue by trained healthcare personnel, but opposed distribution to heroin users and their friends, of overdose rescue kits of opiate-antidote naloxone (Narcan) in i.v. or nasal spray form.
156 philadelphia Her opposition was based on discussions with NIDA and SAMHSA and a scientific literature survey by NIDA. Her opposition was based on discussions with  and  and a scientific literature survey by .
157 philadelphia She voiced opposition to "take-home" narcan on the basis of inadequate scientific evidence to support this policy and on the basis of several publications of potential adverse outcomes. She voiced opposition to "take-home" narcan on the basis of inadequate scientific evidence to support this policy and on the basis of several publications of potential adverse outcomes.
158 philadelphia "Madras says drug users aren't likely to be competent to deal with an overdose emergency". " says drug users aren't likely to be competent to deal with an overdose emergency".
159 philadelphia This quote was based on a several studies and the views of EMT responders, e.g. This quote was based on a several studies and the views of EMT responders, e.g.
160 philadelphia Seal et al., 2003, that indicated risks related to naloxone administration to opioid-dependent people, by untrained personnel. Seal et al., , that indicated risks related to naloxone administration to opioid-dependent people, by untrained personnel.
161 philadelphia Her opposition to "take-home" narcan arose from a number of factors cited in an National Public Radiointerview. Her opposition to "take-home" narcan arose from a number of factors cited in an   .
162 philadelphia These included quoting Seal's detailed study of heroin – injectors in the San Franscisco Bay area,. These included quoting Seal's detailed study of heroin – injectors in the    area,.
163 philadelphia In this survey of 82 street-recruited IDU's who had experienced one or more heroin overdose events, 51% reported soliciting emergency assistance, 87% were in favor of participating in an overdose training program, "35% predicted they would feel comfortable using greater amounts of heroin if they had narcan in their possession, 62% would be less inclined to call 911 for an overdose, 30% would leave an overdose victim after naloxone resusitation," and 46% might not be able to dissuade the victim from using heroin again to alleviate withdrawal symptoms induced by naloxone. In this survey of  street-recruited 's who had experienced  or more heroin overdose events, 51% reported soliciting emergency assistance, 87% were in favor of participating in an overdose training program, "35% predicted they would feel comfortable using greater amounts of heroin if they had narcan in their possession, 62% would be less inclined to call  for an overdose, 30% would leave an overdose victim after nalox resusitation," and 46% might not be able to dissuade the victim from using heroin again to alleviate withdrawal symptoms induced by nalox.
164 philadelphia Another article published by van Dorp, raised concerns that i) "the induction of an acute withdrawal syndrome (the occurrence of vomiting and aspiration is potentially life threatening)" – and that could lead to abandonment by a narcan provider/friend; ii) "the effect of naloxone may wear off prematurely when used for treatment of opioid-induced respiratory depression and require multiple doses and long-term vigilance". Another article published by  , raised concerns that i) "the induction of an acute withdrawal syndrome (the occurrence of vomiting and aspiration is potentially life threatening)" – and that could lead to abandonment by a narcan provider/friend; ii) "the effect of naloxone may wear off prematurely when used for treatment of opioid-induced respiratory depression and require multiple doses and long-term vigilance".
165 philadelphia "Risks warranting the cautious use of naloxone and adequate monitoring of the cardiorespiratory status of the overdose person after naloxone administration where indicated". "Risks warranting the cautious use of naloxone and adequate monitoring of the cardiorespiratory status of the overdose person after naloxone administration where indicated".
166 philadelphia Based on the Seal study, she was concerned that Narcan kits may  encourage 35% of drug abusers to use greater amounts of heroin because they thought overdosing isn't as likely, again leading to unintended consequences. Based on the Seal study, she was concerned that  kits may  encourage 35% of drug abusers to use greater amounts of heroin because they thought overdosing isn't as likely, again leading to unintended consequences.
167 philadelphia Madras also felt that in the presence of healthcare professionals, the opportunity to provide detoxification and referral to treatment would be greater than in a "take-home" narcan provision program. also felt that in the presence of healthcare professionals, the opportunity to provide detoxification and referral to treatment would be greater than in a "take-home" narcan provision program.
168 philadelphia She was concerned that in a "take-home" narcan program, not all resuscitated heroin overdose events could be safely left alone. She was concerned that in a "take-home" narcan program, not all resuscitated heroin overdose events could be safely left alone.
169 philadelphia This concern was based on an article by Etherington et al. (2000): "In the medical community, it is recommended that patients with heroin overdose be watched for 4 to 24 hours after naloxone. This concern was based on an article by  et al. (): "In the medical community, it is recommended that patients with heroin overdose be watched for   2  after naloxone.
170 philadelphia In a recent study, overdose patients were formally assessed 1 hour after receiving naloxone for presumed opioid overdose. In a recent study, overdose patients were formally assessed   after receiving naloxone for presumed opioid overdose.
171 philadelphia Of 573 patients, 48% were discharged in less than 2 hours, 23% in 2–4 hours and 29% in >4 hours. Of  patients, 8% were discharged in    , 3% in –  and 9% in > .
172 philadelphia 94 patients who were held in the emergency department (ED) or admitted required a critical intervention, including supplemental oxygen for hypoxia (74), repeat naloxone (52), antibiotics administered intravenously (IV) (14), assisted ventilations (13), fluid bolus for hypotension (12), charcoal for associated life-threatening overdose (6), IV inotropic agents (2), antiarrhythmics for sustained tachycardia >130 beats/min (1), and administration of bicarbonate for arterial [HCO3] <5 or venous CO2 <5 (1)". patients who were held in the emergency department (ED) or admitted required a critical intervention, including supplemental oxygen for hypoxia (), repeat naloxone (), antibiotics administered intravenously () (), assisted ventilations (), fluid bolus for hypotension (), charcoal for associated life-threatening overdose (),  inotropic agents (), antiarrhythmics for sustained tachycardia >0 beats/min (), and administration of bicarbonate for arterial [HCO3] < or venous CO < ()".
173 philadelphia This study concluded that emergency physicians can clinically identify patients at risk of deterioration after naloxone reversal of suspected opioid overdose. This study concluded that emergency physicians can clinically identify patients at risk of deterioration after naloxone reversal of suspected opioid overdose.
174 philadelphia She was concerned that in the "take-home program", additional emergency room measures needed for a significant number of people (e.g. She was concerned that in the "take-home program", additional emergency room measures needed for a significant number of people (e.g.
175 philadelphia 94/573), would not be available. 94/573), would not be available.
176 philadelphia Finally, the majority of the scientific literature on take-home narcan (according to a NIDA survey requested by Dr. Madras) was based on pilot studies, feasibility studies, or letters to the editor, an inadequate body of research for developing public policy or advocating a major change in medical procedures that could potentially save or cost precious lives. Finally, the majority of the scientific literature on take-home narcan (according to a  survey requested by Dr. ) was based on pilot studies, feasibility studies, or letters to the editor, an inadequate body of research for developing public policy or advocating a major change in medical procedures that could potentially save or cost precious lives.
177 philadelphia Smith's funeral was held in Philadelphia a little over a week later on October 4, 1937. 's funerl ws held in   little over   lter on   .
178 philadelphia Her body was originally laid out at Upshur's funeral home. Her body was originally laid out at 's funeral home.
179 philadelphia As word of her death spread through Philadelphia's black community, the body had to be moved to the O.V. Catto Elks Lodge to accommodate the estimated 10,000 mourners who filed past her coffin on Sunday, October 3. Contemporary newspapers reported that her funeral was attended by about seven thousand people. As word of her death spread through 's black community the body had to be moved to the     to accommodate the estimated  mourners who filed  her coffin on   .Contemporary newspapers reported that her funeral was attended by about   people.
180 philadelphia Far fewer mourners attended the burial at Mount Lawn Cemetery, in nearby Sharon Hill. Far fewer mourners attended the burial at   , in nearby  .
181 philadelphia Gee thwarted all efforts to purchase a stone for his estranged wife, once or twice pocketing money raised for that purpose. Gee thwarted all efforts to purchase a stone for his estranged wife,  or twice pocketing money raised for that purpose.
182 philadelphia One of the Black Mafia's most brutal, inexplicable crimes included the Dubrow Furniture Store robbery. of the Black Mafia's most brutal, inexplicable crimes included the Dubrow Furniture Store robbery.
183 philadelphia On January 4, 1971, eight Black Mafia members robbed DuBrow's on South Street in Philadelphia. On       members robbed 's on South Street in .
184 philadelphia They entered the store one by one posing as customers. They entered the store  by  posing as customers.
185 philadelphia Once all were inside, they pulled guns on the twenty employees present and forced them to lie on the floor in the back of the store where they bound them with tape and electrical cord. all were inside, they pulled guns on the  employees  and forced them to lie on the floor in the back of the store where they bound them with tape and electrical cord.
186 philadelphia Thirteen employees were beaten while two others were shot. employees were beaten while  others were shot.
187 philadelphia A janitor who walked in on the robbery while doing his job was shot and killed. A janitor who walked in on the robbery while doing his job was shot and killed.
188 philadelphia One employee was doused with gasoline and set on fire. employee was doused with gasoline and set on fire.
189 philadelphia After their vicious treatment of the employees, they looted the offices in the store and set more fires to destroy evidence of the robbery. After their vicious treatment of the employees, they looted the offices in the store and set more fires to destroy evidence of the robbery.
190 philadelphia The eight criminals fled the scene as soon as the fire alarm went off, purposefully trampling on one of the victim's bodies as they left. The  criminals fled the scene as soon as the fire alarm went off, purposefully trampling on  of the victim's bodies as they left.
191 philadelphia This crime was so brutal that W.E.B. Griffin wrote a novel based on it, "The Witness," and Philadelphia Police Commissioner Frank Rizzo was quoted as saying that the DuBrow crime was "the most vicious crime I have ever come across. This crime was so brutal that   wrote a novel based on it, "The ," and  Police Commissioner   was quoted as saying that the DuBrow crime was "the most vicious crime I have ever come across.
192 philadelphia At 2:08 a.m. At 2:08 a.m.
193 philadelphia (6:08 GMT), the first and largest of the explosions took place. (6:08 GMT), the  and largest of the explosions took place.
194 philadelphia Fragments from the explosion traveled long distances, some lodging in the Statue of Liberty and some in the clock tower of "The Jersey Journal" building in Journal Square, over a mile away, stopping the clock at 2:12 a.m. Fragments from the explosion traveled long distances, some lodging in the Statue of Liberty and some in the clock tower of "The Jersey Journal" building in Journal Square, over a mile away, stopping the clock at 2:12 a.m.
195 philadelphia The explosion was the equivalent of an earthquake measuring between 5.0 and 5.5 on the Richter scale and was felt as far away as Philadelphia. The explosion was the equivalent of an earthquake measuring between    on the  scale  was felt as far away as .
196 philadelphia Windows broke as far as  away, including thousands in lower Manhattan. Windows broke as far as  away, including thousands in lower .
197 philadelphia Some window panes in Times Square were completely shattered. Some window panes in Times Square were completely shattered.
198 philadelphia The outer wall of Jersey City's City Hall was cracked and the Brooklyn Bridge was shaken. The outer wall of  's  Hall was cracked and the   was shaken.
199 philadelphia People as far away as Maryland were awakened by what they thought was an earthquake. People as far away as  were awakened by what they thought was an earthquake.
200 philadelphia Finally, Jack attempts to gather irrefutable proof of the assassination attempt, wiring Sally with a hidden microphone and sending her off to meet a purported media contact. Finally,  attempts to gather irrefutable proof of the assassination attempt, wiring  with a hidden microphone and sending her off to meet a purported media contact.
201 philadelphia Shadowing her from a distance, he is alarmed to see that his supposed contact is Burke, not the reporter. Shadowing her from a distance, he is alarmed to see that his supposed contact is , not the reporter.
202 philadelphia Sally is the last loose end for Burke to eliminate, and her death will be attributed to the "Strangler." is the last loose end for  to eliminate, and her death will be attributed to the "Strangler."
203 philadelphia Immediately realizing that she is in danger, Jack attempts to warn her, but Sally and Burke slip out of range and into the Liberty Day parade. Immediately realizing that she is in danger,  attempts to warn her, but  and  slip out of range and into the   parade.
204 philadelphia Jack makes a mad dash across Philadelphia, attempting to head them off and rescue Sally. makes a mad dash across , attempting to head them off and rescue .
205 philadelphia He crashes his Jeep, though and is knocked out. He crashes his Jeep, though and is knocked out.
206 philadelphia By the time Jack awakens, Burke has taken Sally to a rooftop where he attacks her. By the time  awakens,  has taken  to a rooftop where he attacks her.
207 philadelphia Still listening in on his earpiece, Jack spots them. Still listening in on his earpiece,  spots them.
208 philadelphia He hears Sally screaming as he rushes to save her, but he is too late. He hears  screaming as he rushes to save her, but he is too late.
209 philadelphia He arrives just after Burke has strangled her to death and is marking her body with the Strangler's signature bell pattern. He arrives just after  has strangled her to death and is marking her body with the Strangler's signature bell pattern.
210 philadelphia Jack takes Burke by surprise and tries to capture him, but Burke, laughing in his face, commits suicide. takes  by surprise and tries to capture him, but , laughing in his face, commits suicide.
211 philadelphia Jack, devastated and on his knees, then takes Sally's lifeless body in his arms. , devastated and on his knees, then takes 's lifeless body in his arms.
212 philadelphia While visiting her family in Philadelphia on Christmas Eve 1969, Carol McCain was driving alone in snowy, icy conditions. While visiting her family in  on   ,   was driving alone in snowy, icy conditions.
213 philadelphia Approaching an intersection on an isolated country road, she skidded and collided with a telephone pole, was thrown from the car into the snow, and went into shock. Approaching an intersection on an isolated country road, she skidded and collided with a telephone pole, was thrown from the car into the snow, and went into shock.
214 philadelphia Some time later, she was found and taken to Bryn Mawr Hospital; she had two smashed legs, a broken pelvis, broken arm, and ruptured spleen. Some time later, she was found and taken to   ; she had  smashed legs, a broken pelvis, broken arm, and ruptured spleen.
215 philadelphia She spent six months in the hospital, and over the course of the next two years had 23 operations, which rebuilt her legs with rods and pins, as well as extensive physical therapy. She spent   in  hospital, and over  course of     had  operations, which rebuilt her legs with rods and pins, as well as extensive physical rapy.
216 philadelphia She did not tell her husband about the accident in her letters to him, believing he already had enough to worry about, and the U.S. State Department told a surgeon who operated upon her not to mention anything to the press, lest it worsen the treatment for John McCain. She did not tell her husband about the accident in her letters to him, believing he already had enough to worry about, and the    told a surgeon who operated upon her not to mention anything to the press, lest it worsen the treatment for  .
217 philadelphia Businessman and POW advocate Ross Perot paid for her medical care and she remained grateful to him, later saying: "The military families are in Ross's heart and in his soul ... Businessman and POW advocate   paid for her medical care and she remained grateful to him, later saying: "The military families are in 's heart and in his soul ...
218 philadelphia There are millions of us who are extremely grateful to Ross Perot." There are millions of us who are extremely grateful to  ."
219 philadelphia Years after John McCain found out about Perot's help, he said "we loved him for it." after   found out about 's help, he said "we loved him for it."
220 philadelphia She was interviewed on the "CBS Evening News" in 1970, and said that Christmas had no meaning for her without her husband present, but that she carried on with it for the sake of their children. She was interviewed on the "CBS Evening News" in , and said that  had no meaning for her without her husband , but that she carried on with it for the sake of their children.
221 philadelphia The snail was first discovered at Chittenango Falls in August 1905 by a field party from the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. The snail was  discovered at      by a field party from the Academy of Natural Sciences of .
222 philadelphia In 1908, Henry Augustus Pilsbry reported the discovery, describing the snail as a subspecies of the widely distributed "Succinea ovalis". In ,    reported the discovery, describing the snail as a subspecies of the widely distributed "Succinea ovalis".
223 philadelphia Because of this, the Chittenango ovate amber snail is referred to in many publications as "Succinea ovalis chittenangoensis". Because of this, the  ovate amber snail is referred to in many publications as "Succinea ovalis chittenangoensis".
224 philadelphia After the funeral Mass, Longet and Williams boarded the 21-car funeral train that took Senator Kennedy's body to Washington, D.C. and Arlington National Cemetery for burial. After the funeral Mass,  and  boarded the 21-car funeral train that took Senator 's body to ,  and    for burial.
225 philadelphia Longet and Williams were with Senator Kennedy's body, Ethel Kennedy, Ted Kennedy, and other Kennedy family members in the end car of the train. and  were with Senator 's body,  ,  , and other  family members in the end car of the train.
226 philadelphia The front page of the 9 June 1968 edition of the "Washington Post" has a large photograph that depicts Ted Kennedy and Longet standing together on the rear platform of the funeral train as it passed through North Philadelphia. The front page of the   168 edition of the " " has a large photograph that depicts   and  standing together on the rear platform of the funeral train as it passed through  .
227 philadelphia Daryl Poynter is a successful but self-destructive Philadelphia real estate salesman who is addicted to cocaine. is a successful but self-destructive  real estate salesman who is addicted to cocaine.
228 philadelphia He embezzles $92,000 of his company's money from an escrow account and then loses it all to his addiction and the stock market. He embezzles $92,000 of his company's money from an escrow account and then loses it all to his addiction and the stock market.
229 philadelphia Waking up one morning next to a girl who suffered a heart attack from a cocaine overdose, he tries to cover up the drug use, but the police make it clear that they know what happened. Waking up  morning next to a girl who suffered a heart attack from a cocaine overdose, he tries to cover up the drug use, but the police make it clear that they know what happened.
230 philadelphia There is also the matter of the company's money. There is also the matter of the company's money.
231 philadelphia Daryl tries to flee the country but all flights are held up due to bad weather. tries to flee the country but all flights are held up due to bad weather.
232 philadelphia His colleague Martin also refuses to put him up for a couple of weeks. His collegue  lso refuses to put him up for    .
233 philadelphia Daryl then learns of a drug rehabilitation program which lasts about a month and which guarantees anonymity. then lerns of  drug rehbilittion progrm which lsts    nd which gurntees nonymity.
234 philadelphia He thus applies for it. He thus applies for it.
235 philadelphia There, he meets Craig, a tough but supportive drug rehabilitation counselor. There, he meets , a tough but supportive drug rehabilitation counselor.
236 philadelphia With great difficulty, Craig helps Daryl to realize he is an addict and his life is complete chaos. With great difficulty,  helps  to realize he is an addict and his life is complete chaos.
237 philadelphia He says to him, "The best way to break old habits is to make new ones." He says to him, "The best way to break old habits is to make new ones."
238 philadelphia Judge Green suffered a cerebral hemorrhage and died of pneumonia in Philadelphia on May 31, 2007. Judge  suffered a cerebral hemorrhage and died of pneumonia in  on   .
239 philadelphia He was survived by his wife and daughter. He was survived by his wife and daughter.
240 philadelphia The "Coatesville, Pennsylvania arsons" refer to a spree of deliberately-set fires in 2008 and 2009 in the area of Coatesville, Pennsylvania, a small Philadelphia suburb. The ",  arsons" refer to a spree of deliberately-set fires in  and  in the area of , , a small  suburb.
241 philadelphia There were 26 fires set in Coatesville in the year 2008 and, since January 1, 2009, there have been 18 reported cases of arson in the city and five more in the surrounding area. There were  fires set in  in    and since    re have been 8 reported cases of arson in  city and  more in  surrounding area.
242 philadelphia The fires have caused more than $3 million in damage, left scores of people homeless and resulted in the death of one 83-year-old woman. The fires have caused more than $3 million in damage, left scores of people homeless and resulted in the death of   woman.
243 philadelphia As of March 2009, six people have been arrested in connection with some of the fires. As of  ,  people have been arrested in connection with some of the fires.
244 philadelphia On August 23, 1926, he was leading a formation of three army planes leaving the Sesquicentennial Exposition in Philadelphia heading toward Selfridge Field in Michigan when in heavy fog he hit a tree and crashed on Jacks Mountain near Bellefonte, Pennsylvania. On    he was leading a formation of  army planes leaving the Sesquicentennial Exposition in  heading toward   in  when in heavy fog he hit a tree and crashed on Jacks Mountain near  .
245 philadelphia He was seriously injured, including two broken legs, and after waiting in vain for rescue he crawled two-and-a-half miles to a road where he was found by highway workers. He was seriously injured, including  broken legs, and after waiting in vain for rescue he crawled -and-a-half miles to a road where he was found by highway workers.
246 philadelphia He was admitted to Bellefonte Hospital and then airlifted to Walter Reed Hospital in Washington where he was expected to recover, but he died on September 1, 1926 of spinal meningitis. He was admitted to   and then airlifted to    in  where he was expected to recover but he died on   926 of spinal meningitis.
247 philadelphia On May 30, 1933, Alexander twisted a knee in a game at Philadelphia. On     twisted a knee in a game at .
248 philadelphia He was given diathermy treatment ("electrically induced heat" used for muscle relaxation) in the clubhouse by Red Sox trainer, Doc Woods. He was given diathermy treatment ("electrically induced heat" used for muscle relaxation) in the clubhouse by   trainer,  .
249 philadelphia Alexander's leg suffered third degree burns during the treatment, and gangrene eventually set in. "It was a new method of treatment and not too much was known about it," Alexander said, years later. 's leg suffered  degree burns during the treatment, and gangrene eventually set in."It was a new method of treatment and not too much was known about it,"  said,  .
250 philadelphia "I noticed my leg felt awfully hot. "I noticed my leg felt awfully hot.
251 philadelphia I ended up with third-degree burns and a gangrene infection and almost lost my leg. I ended up with third-degree burns and a gangrene infection and almost lost my leg.
252 philadelphia I was finished in the Majors... I was finished in the Majors...
253 philadelphia I couldn't run and I couldn't field and when I got hurt, that was the end." I couldn't run and I couldn't field and when I got hurt, that was the end."
254 philadelphia Alexander attempted a comeback but injured his leg again in July 1933 and saw limited action for the rest of the season, mostly as a pinch hitter. attempted a comeback but injured his leg again in   and saw limited action for the rest of the season, mostly as a pinch hitter.
255 philadelphia Alexander wound up hitting .281 in  and played his last Major League game was on September 23, 1933 against the New York Yankees. wound up hitting  in  and played his last   game was on    against the   .
256 philadelphia • "The Philadelphia Experiment, Ape-Man Army, Zapped to Death"  -Premiere Date: Wednesday, August 31, 2011 at 10PM e/p • "I Have Einstein's Brain, Unidentified Flying Nazis, Killer Thoughts"  -Premiere Date: Wednesday, September 7, 2011 at 10PM e/p • "Sexy Secret Agent, Full Body Transplant, Honey I Nuked the Planet"  -Premiere Date: Wednesday, September 14, 2011 at 10PM e/p • "It's Alive!, Tripping with Uncle Sam, My Hand is Killing Me"  -Premiere Date: Wednesday, September 21, 2011 at 10PM e/p • "21 Grams, Missing Cosmonauts, Sound of Death"  -Premiere Date: Wednesday, September 28, 2011 at 10PM e/p • "Jekyll vs Hyde, How to Make a Zombie, Radio Waves of Death"  -Premiere Date: Wednesday, October 5, 2011 at 10PM e/p "The  Experiment   Zapped to Death"  -Premiere Date:     at 10PM e/p  "I Have 's Brain    Killer Thoughts"  -Premiere Date:     at 10PM e/p  "Sexy Secret Agent Full Body Transplant Honey I Nuked the Planet"  -Premiere Date:     at 10PM e/p  "It's Alive! Tripping with Uncle  My Hand is Killing Me"  -Premiere Date:     at 10PM e/p  " Grams Missing  Sound of Death"  -Premiere Date:     at 10PM e/p  "Jekyll vs  How to Make a Zombie Radio Waves of Death"  -Premiere Date:     at 10PM e/p
257 philadelphia Confusion reigns at the WGON television studio in Philadelphia by the pandemic's third week, where staff member Stephen and his girlfriend Francine are planning to steal the station's traffic helicopter to escape the zombies. Confusion reigns at the  television studio in  by the pandemic's  , where staff member  and his girlfriend  are planning to steal the station's traffic helicopter to escape the zombies.
258 philadelphia Meanwhile, Roger and his SWAT team raid an apartment building where the residents are ignoring the martial law of delivering the dead to National Guardsmen. Meanwhile,  and his SWAT team raid an apartment building where the residents are ignoring the martial law of delivering the dead to National Guardsmen.
259 philadelphia Some residents attack with rifles, and are slaughtered by the SWAT operatives and by their own reanimated dead. Some residents attack with rifles, and are slaughtered by the  operatives and by their own reanimated dead.
260 philadelphia During the raid, Roger meets Peter, part of another SWAT team, with whom he kills the zombies concealed below the building. During the raid,  meets , part of another SWAT team, with whom he kills the zombies concealed below the building.
261 philadelphia That night, Roger and Peter escape Philadelphia with Francine and Stephen via helecopter. That night,  and  escape  with  and  via helecopter.
262 philadelphia Following some close calls while stopping for fuel, the group comes across a shopping mall, which becomes their sanctuary. Following some close calls while stopping for fuel, the group comes across a shopping mall, which becomes their sanctuary.
263 philadelphia To make the mall safe for habitation, they kill its zombie population and block the entrance to keep the zombies outside from entering. To make the mall safe for habitation, they kill its zombie population and block the entrance to keep the zombies outside from entering.
264 philadelphia During the operation, Roger becomes infected by the zombies' mutagen; but after clearing the mall of its zombies, the four live hedonistically upon its contents. During the operation,  becomes infected by the zombies' mutagen; but after clearing the mall of its zombies, the  live hedonistically upon its contents.
265 philadelphia Later, they come to perceive themselves imprisoned by the zombies, and reveal that Francine is four months pregnant. Later, they come to perceive themselves imprisoned by the zombies, and reveal that  is   pregnant.
266 philadelphia The men begin to consider leaving the mall; Stephen opposes the plan, but teaches Francine how to operate the helicopter in case of emergency. The men begin to consider leaving the mall;  opposes the plan, but teaches  how to operate the helicopter in case of emergency.
267 philadelphia Roger eventually succumbs to his wounds, reanimates, and is shot by Peter. eventually succumbs to his wounds, reanimates, and is shot by .
268 philadelphia All emergency broadcast transmissions have ceased, suggesting that most civilization around them has collapsed. All emergency broadcast transmissions have ceased, suggesting that most civilization around them has collapsed.
269 philadelphia On May 9, 1941, Leonie and Benjamin planned to fly from Long Island to Philadelphia. On   141  and  planned to fly from   to .
270 philadelphia The weather conditions were not suitable for flight but the couple insisted and did not heed to the warnings. The weather conditions were not suitable for flight but the couple insisted and did not heed to the warnings.
271 philadelphia In the blinding rain the plane crashed into the side of a mountain killing the young couple instantly. In the blinding rain the plane crashed into the side of a mountain killing the young couple instantly.
272 philadelphia Leonie was thirty-one and had no children. was  and had no children.
273 philadelphia The nor'easter struck about 14 months after the 1991 Perfect Storm produced similarly high tides across the region, and only 11 months after another nor'easter in January 1992. The nor'easter struck    after the  Perfect Storm produced similarly high tides across the region, and only   after another nor'easter in  .
274 philadelphia In Wilmington, North Carolina, the storm dropped  of rainfall, which broke the daily rainfall record set in 1888. In ,  , the storm dropped  of rainfall, which broke the daily rainfall record set in .
275 philadelphia High tides damaged much of the dune system along the Assateague Island National Seashore and about a third of the newly-installed dunes in Ocean City, Maryland. High tides damaged much of the dune system along the     and about a  of the newly-installed dunes in  , .
276 philadelphia Along the Maryland coast, the storm dropped heavy rainfall, with a total of  in Salisbury; the high rains flooded local streams. Along the  coast, the storm dropped heavy rainfall, with a total of  in ; the high rains flooded local streams.
277 philadelphia At Assateague National Seashore, wind gusts peaked at . At   , wind gusts peaked at .
278 philadelphia The storm struck shortly after a full moon, and the combination of high tides and waves breached dunes in some locations. The storm struck shortly after a full moon, and the combination of high tides and waves breached dunes in some locations.
279 philadelphia Despite its longevity, the nor'easter was less severe than its predecessors along the Delaware Bay, mostly because the stronger northeast quadrant was over the coastline for one tidal cycle, and the predominant southeast winds were blocked by Cape Henlopen. Despite its longevity, the nor'easter was less severe than its predecessors along the  , mostly because the stronger northeast quadrant was over the coastline for  tidal cycle, and the predominant southeast winds were blocked by  .
280 philadelphia However, there were still high tides and flooding along the Delaware Bay. However, there were still high tides and flooding along the  .
281 philadelphia In Lewes, the nor'easter produced a high tide of , which at the time was the seventh highest on record. In , the nor'easter produced a high tide of , which at the time was the  highest on record.
282 philadelphia High tides continued in Delaware until December 15. High tides continued in  until  .
283 philadelphia Several days of high tides caused minor beach erosion and damaged dune systems. of high tides caused minor beach erosion and damaged dune systems.
284 philadelphia In Dewey Beach, there was property damage from coastal flooding. In  , there was property damage from coastal flooding.
285 philadelphia The storm produced significantly more rainfall than the storm in January 1992, including a total of  in Wilmington, Delaware. The storm produced significantly more rainfall than the storm in  , including a total of  in , .
286 philadelphia A station in New Castle County reported a record 24 hour rainfall total of . A station in    reported a record   rainfall total of .
287 philadelphia The rains caused flooding and the third highest discharge on record at Duck Creek in Smyrna. The rains caused flooding and the  highest discharge on record at   in .
288 philadelphia Wind in Delaware peaked at  at a station along the Indian River. Wind in  peaked at  at a station along the  .
289 philadelphia Further north along the Delaware River, a high tide of  was reported in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Further north along the  , a high tide of  was reported in , .
290 philadelphia High winds in the city broke the steeple of a church, and the resulting debris briefly closed the Ben Franklin Bridge. High winds in the city broke the steeple of a church, and the resulting debris briefly closed the Ben Franklin Bridge.
291 philadelphia Hurricane force wind gusts left about 160,000 residents without power. Hurricane force wind gusts left about  residents without power.
292 philadelphia Heavy snowfall spread across the state, reaching . Heavy snowfall spread across the state, reaching .
293 philadelphia State College reported a total of , which contributed to its snowiest December on record. reported a total of , which contributed to its snowiest  on record.
294 philadelphia Anderson has had several injuries over his career. has had several injuries over his career.
295 philadelphia In late 1991 he broke his kneecap when he hit a wall at the Rosemont Horizon in Chicago, forcing him to sit out the 1992 winter season. In   he broke his kneecap when he hit a wall at    in , forcing him to sit out    season.
296 philadelphia He recovered and beat Jack Willman Jr. in Taurus at Carter Finley Stadium in Raleigh, North Carolina. He recovered and beat    in Taurus at    in ,  .
297 philadelphia Later in 1992, a hard side hit on the wall of Louisville Motor Speedway in Louisville, Kentucky broke several ribs near his backbone and caused recurring problems throughout his career. Later in , a hard side hit on the wall of    in ,  broke several ribs near his backbone and caused recurring problems throughout his career.
298 philadelphia A nose-dive, AKA the lawn dart, at the Louisiana Superdome in New Orleans in 1999 aggravated the injury and caused Anderson to miss several shows over the next couple of years. A nose-dive, AKA  lawn dart, at    in   in  aggravated  injury and caused  to miss several shows over     .
299 philadelphia He reinjured himself at a Special Events show in Bloomsburg, Pennsylvania. He reinjured himself at a Special Events show in , .
300 philadelphia A broken hand from a non-driving accident in Philadelphia in 2003 sat him out for half of that year. A broken hand from a non-driving accident in  in   him out for half of that .
301 philadelphia Another was an injury that was less known about was an injury to his right wrist during the summer of 2006 in a non monster truck accident. Anor was an injury that was less known about was an injury to his right wrist during     in a non monster truck accident.
302 philadelphia Anderson's most recent injury is an arm injury at the Metrodome in late 2006, meaning his son Adam Anderson drove Grave Digger at shows in early 2007. 's most recent injury is an arm injury at the Metrodome in  , meaning his son   drove   at shows in  .
303 philadelphia For loading a Philadelphia Deringer, one would typically fire a couple of percussion caps on the handgun, to dry out any residual moisture contained in the tube or at the base of the barrel, to prevent a subsequent misfire. For loading a  ,  would typically fire a couple of percussion caps on the handgun, to dry out any residual moisture contained in the tube or at the base of the barrel, to prevent a subsequent misfire.
304 philadelphia One would then remove the remains of the last fired percussion cap and place the handgun on its half-cock notch, pour 15 to 25 grains of blackpowder down the barrel, followed by ramming a patched lead ball down onto the powder, being very careful to leave no air gap between the patched ball and the powder, to prevent the handgun from exploding when used. would then remove the remains of the last fired percussion cap and place the handgun on its half-cock notch, pour  to  grains of blackpowder down the barrel, followed by ramming a patched lead ball down onto the powder, being very careful to leave no air gap between the patched ball and the powder, to prevent the handgun from exploding when used.
305 philadelphia (The purpose of the patch on the ball was to keep the ball firmly lodged against the powder, to avoid creating what was called a "short start" when the ball was dislodged from being firmly against the powder.) (The purpose of the patch on the ball was to keep the ball firmly lodged against the powder, to avoid creating what was called a "short start" when the ball was dislodged from being firmly against the powder.)
306 philadelphia A new percussion cap would then be placed on the tube (what today would be called a nipple), and the gun was then loaded and ready to fire. A new percussion cap would then be placed on the tube (what  would be called a nipple), and the gun was then loaded and ready to fire.
307 philadelphia (The half-cock notch prevented the hammer from falling if the trigger were bumped accidentally while carrying the handgun in one's coat pocket.) (The half-cock notch prevented the hammer from falling if the trigger were bumped accidentally while carrying the handgun in 's coat pocket.)
308 philadelphia Then, to fire the handgun, a user would fully cock the hammer, aim, and squeeze the trigger. Then, to fire the handgun, a user would fully cock the hammer, aim, and squeeze the trigger.
309 philadelphia Upon a misfire, the user could fully re-cock the hammer, and attempt to fire the handgun once more, or, equally common, switch to a second Deringer. Upon  misfire, the user could fully re-cock the hmmer, nd ttempt to fire the hndgun  more, or, eqully common, switch to   Deringer.
310 philadelphia Accuracy was highly variable; although front sights were common, rear sights were less common, and some Philadelphia Deringers had no sights at all, being intended for point and shoot use instead of aim and shoot, across Poker-table distances. Accuracy was highly variable; although front sights were common, rear sights were less common, and some   had no sights at all, being intended for point and shoot use instead of aim and shoot, across  distances.
311 philadelphia Professional gamblers, and others who carried regularly, often would fire and reload daily, to decrease the chance of a misfire upon needing to use a Philadelphia Deringer. Professional gamblers, and others who carried regularly, often would fire and reload daily, to decrease the chance of a misfire upon needing to use a  .
312 philadelphia Whilst lecturing in America Lardner was paid by Norris Brothers, the largest firm of locomotive builders, to investigate a fatal accident in Reading, near Philadelphia, where a boiler had exploded on a newly made train. Whilst lecturing in   was paid by  , the largest firm of locomotive builders, to investigate a fatal accident in Reading, near , where a boiler had exploded on a newly made train.
313 philadelphia Lardner pronounced that the accident had been caused by lightning, which meant that Norris brothers were not personally liable for the accident. pronounced that the accident had been caused by lightning, which meant that  brothers were not personally liable for the accident.
314 philadelphia A committee of the Franklin Institute pointed out that there was no lightning present at that time and that the pumps had been faulty, the water indicator was ill-designed and the bridge-bands made of cast iron rather than wrought iron. A committee of the   pointed out that there was no lightning  at that time and that the pumps had been faulty, the water indicator was ill-designed and the bridge-bands made of cast iron rather than wrought iron.
315 philadelphia The Coroner's inquest jury were persuaded by Lardner that the accident was an 'act of God' but the company were careful to design their later locomotives with wrought-iron bands. The Coroner's inquest jury were persuaded by  that the accident was an 'act of God' but the company were careful to design their later locomotives with wrought-iron bands.
316 philadelphia On July 23, 1999, during the offseason after his rookie NHL campaign, Tertyshny was on a boating trip to Okanagan Lake in British Columbia with two players from the Flyers' minor-league affiliate Philadelphia Phantoms, Francis Belanger and Mikhail Chernov, when a freak accident caused him to suffer fatal injuries. On    during the offseason after his rookie  campaign  was on a boating trip to   in   with  players from the ' minor-league affiliate     and   when a freak accident caused him to suffer fatal injuries.
317 philadelphia The boat hit a wave and caused him to fall forward overboard. The boat hit a wave and caused him to fall forward overboard.
318 philadelphia The boat ran over him and its propeller slashed his neck and his jugular vein. The boat ran over him and its propeller slashed his neck and his jugular vein.
319 philadelphia Twice during his baseball career Medich went into the stands during a game to aid a fan who was suffering a heart attack. Twice during his baseball career  went into the stands during a game to aid a fan who was suffering a heart attack.
320 philadelphia In 1976 in Philadelphia he performed CPR and mouth-to-mouth on a fan who died later that day. In  in  he performed CPR and mouth-to-mouth on a fan who died later that .
321 philadelphia In a 1978 game between the Texas Rangers and the Baltimore Orioles he revived a man who was suffering a heart attack. In a  game between the   and the   he revived a man who was suffering a heart attack.
322 philadelphia The man survived and lived several more years. The man survived and lived several more .
323 philadelphia The result of the sudden shift of the party line caused shock and confusion among many members of the Communist Party USA, a goodly number of whom had joined during the period of the Popular Front against fascism. The result of the sudden shift of the party line caused shock and confusion among many members of the   , a goodly number of whom had joined during the period of the Popular Front against fascism.
324 philadelphia Browder declared at one Philadelphia rally that only "a dozen or so" had left the CPUSA over the change of line; in actuality the party's ranks fell by 15% between 1939 and 1940 and recruitment of new members in 1940 fell by 75% over 1938 levels. declared at   rally that only "a  or so" had left the  over the change of line; in actuality the party's ranks fell by 15% between     recruitment of new members in  fell by 75% over  levels.
325 philadelphia The public image of the USSR as a main bulwark against fascism and claims of the CPUSA as an indigenous radical organization were severely undermined. The public image of the  as a main bulwark against fascism and claims of the  as an indigenous radical organization were severely undermined.
326 philadelphia According to "The Baseball Necrology", Irvin died in 1916 from injuries suffered when he was "thrown through a saloon window" in Philadelphia. According to "The Baseball Necrology",  died in  from injuries suffered when he was "thrown through a saloon window" in .
327 philadelphia ("The Baseball Necrology: The Post-Baseball Lives and Deaths of Over 7,600 Major League Players and Others", by Bill Lee.) ("The Baseball Necrology: The Post-Baseball Lives and Deaths of Over     and Others", by  .)
328 philadelphia In August 1987, several months after Fox fired Rivers, Rosenberg committed suicide by overdosing on prescription drugs in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. In  ,   after  fired ,  committed suicide by overdosing on prescription drugs in , .
329 philadelphia He had been suffering from clinical depression, which Rivers believes was brought on by medication he had been taking since suffering a heart attack in 1984. He had been suffering from clinical depression, which  believes was brought on by medication he had been taking since suffering a heart attack in .
330 philadelphia In the Philadelphia area, 3,500 homes were flooded and 1,000 residents were evacuated. In the  area,  homes were flooded and  residents were evacuated.
331 philadelphia Around 400 people became stranded at the Radisson Hotel. Around  people became stranded at the Radisson Hotel.
332 philadelphia Although wind gusts were below hurricane-force in Pennsylvania, saturated ground from the torrential precipitation resulted in widespread downed trees, some of which struck houses and vehicles. Although wind gusts were below hurricane-force in , saturated ground from the torrential precipitation resulted in widespread downed trees, some of which struck houses and vehicles.
333 philadelphia Gibson's Covered Bridge sustained severe damage due to fallen trees. 's Covered Bridge sustained severe damage due to fallen trees.
334 philadelphia Over 500,000 homes and businesses lost power as a result of Tropical Storm Floyd. Over  homes and businesses lost power as a result of Tropical Storm Floyd.
335 philadelphia On the Rockville Bridge, which spans the Susquehanna River, high winds tipped over some cars of a freight train. On the  , which spans the  , high winds tipped over some cars of a freight train.
336 philadelphia Floyd produced moderate to heavy rainfall across the eastern half of the state, concentrated in extreme southeastern areas, where as much as  of precipitation fell. produced moderate to heavy rainfall across the eastern half of the state, concentrated in extreme southeastern areas, where as much as  of precipitation fell.
337 philadelphia In Marcus Hook, the highest verifiable storm rainfall total of  was reported. In  , the highest verifiable storm rainfall total of  was reported.
338 philadelphia The  of precipitation at Philadelphia International Airport set a new daily rainfall record and an overall 24-hour record. The  of precipitation at    set a new daily rainfall record and an overall  record.
339 philadelphia Rain from the storm exceeded 100-year levels along the axis of the most severe downpours. Rain from the storm exceeded  levels along the axis of the most severe downpours.
340 philadelphia A cold front that stalled on September 15 acted as a conveyor belt of tropical moisture, which reached the area early that same day. A cold front that stalled on   acted as a conveyor belt of tropical moisture, which reached the area early that same .
341 philadelphia The rainfall had abated by the afternoon on September 16. The rainfall had abated by the afternoon on  .
342 philadelphia Winds were generally below , although a gust to  occurred at the Commodore Barry Bridge. Winds were generally below , although a gust to  occurred at the Commodore Barry Bridge.
343 philadelphia Upon making landfall, Isabel produced a storm surge that tracked up the Delaware River, with a station along the river in Philadelphia reporting a storm tide of 9.47 feet (2.89 m). Upon making landfall,  produced a storm surge that tracked up the  , with a station along the river in  reporting a storm tide of  feet ( m).
344 philadelphia There, the surge flooded low-lying areas along the river. There, the surge flooded low-lying areas along the river.
345 philadelphia The large circulation of the hurricane produced moderate winds throughout the state, with wind gusts in the southeastern portion of the state reaching 60 mph (95 km/h) in Forks Township. The large circulation of the hurricane produced moderate winds throughout the state, with wind gusts in the southeastern portion of the state reaching  mph ( km/h) in  .
346 philadelphia Philadelphia, Pennsylvania also recorded a wind gust of 49 mph (79 km/h), which contributed to severe delays at the Philadelphia International Airport. ,  also recorded a wind gust of  mph ( km/h), which contributed to severe delays at the   .
347 philadelphia The moderate wind gust downed thousands of trees, tree limbs, and power lines. The moderate wind gust downed thousands of trees, tree limbs, and power lines.
348 philadelphia PECO energy reported their worst power outage on record with about 572,425 customers losing electricity. energy reported their worst power outage on record with about  customers losing electricity.
349 philadelphia The company estimated it would cost at least $20 million (2003 USD, $23 million 2008 USD) for it to install about 81 miles (130 km) of new cable and install about 7,600 new fuses and circuit breakers. The company estimated it would cost at least $20 million ( USD, $23 million 2008 USD) for it to install about  miles ( km) of new cable and install about  new fuses and circuit breakers.
350 philadelphia The Metropolitan Edison power company reported 300,000 customers without power, with 500,000 Pennsylvania Power and Light customers losing electricity. The   power company reported  customers without power, with    and Light customers losing electricity.
351 philadelphia Continuing northward, heavy rains from Jeanne spread into Pennsylvania, bringing further floods to the already storm-stricken state. Continuing northward, heavy rains from  spread into , bringing further floods to the already storm-stricken state.
352 philadelphia Already saturated by the remnants of Hurricanes Frances and Ivan, soil across the state was unable to hold much additional moisture, resulting in widespread flooding. Already saturated by the remnants of Hurricanes  and , soil across the state was unable to hold much additional moisture, resulting in widespread flooding.
353 philadelphia Rainfall peaked at  in West Chester; this ranks Jeanne as the eighth wettest tropical cyclone on record in Pennsylvania. Rainfall peaked at  in  ; this ranks  as the  wettest tropical cyclone on record in .
354 philadelphia Numerous creeks, streams and rivers overflowed their banks and inundated nearby areas. Numerous creeks, streams and rivers overflowed their banks and inundated nearby areas.
355 philadelphia In Chester County, the Brandywine Creek rose  above flood stage, resulting in swift water rescues and prompting emergency officials to open shelters. In  , the   rose  above flood stage, resulting in swift water rescues and prompting emergency officials to open shelters.
356 philadelphia Numerous roads across the state were shut down due to high waters. Numerous roads across the state were shut down due to high waters.
357 philadelphia In Philadelphia, flash flooding resulted in one fatality after a woman was swept away by swift currents while trying to board a SEPTA bus. In , flash flooding resulted in  fatality after a woman was swept away by swift currents while trying to board a  bus.
358 philadelphia Six people attempted to rescue her, however, she became trapped under a pickup truck and drowned. people attempted to rescue her, however, she became trapped under a pickup truck and drowned.
359 philadelphia Several abandoned buildings in the city also collapsed. Several abandoned buildings in the city also collapsed.
360 philadelphia A commuter train carrying 400 people was evacuated after passengers felt uneasy due to loose soil underneath the rails. A commuter train carrying  people was evacuated after passengers felt uneasy due to loose soil underneath the rails.
361 philadelphia One of the major roadways connecting Philadelphia with a western suburb was shut down after more than  covered portions of it. of the major roadways connecting  with a western suburb was shut down after more than  covered portions of it.
362 philadelphia Several water rescues had to be made along the road after residents became trapped in flood waters. Several water rescues had to be made along the road after residents became trapped in flood waters.
363 philadelphia Additionally, several schools were closed on September 29 due to hazardous conditions. Additionally, several schools were closed on   due to hazardous conditions.
364 philadelphia In all, Jeanne left $290 million (2004 USD; $  USD)in losses throughout Pennsylvania. In all,  left $290 million ( USD; $  USD)in losses throughout .
365 philadelphia While in MacDowell Colony, New Hampshire, Chang met and became involved with the American screenwriter Ferdinand Reyher, a native of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. While in  ,  ,  met and became involved with the  screenwriter  , a native of , .
366 philadelphia During the time they were briefly apart in New York (Chang in New York City, Reyher in Saratoga), Chang wrote to Reyher that she was pregnant with his child. During the time they were briefly apart in   ( in   ,  in ),  wrote to  that she was pregnant with his child.
367 philadelphia Reyher wrote back to propose. wrote back to propose.
368 philadelphia Although Chang did not receive the letter, she telephoned the following morning to inform Reyher she was arriving in Saratoga. Although  did not receive  letter, she telephoned    to inform  she was arriving in .
369 philadelphia Reyher had a chance to propose to her in person, but insisted that he did not want the child. had a chance to propose to her in person, but insisted that he did not want the child.
370 philadelphia Chang suffered a miscarriage shortly thereafter. suffered a miscarriage shortly thereafter.
371 philadelphia On August 14, 1956, the couple married in New York City. On    the couple married in   .
372 philadelphia After the wedding, the couple moved back to New Hampshire. After the wedding, the couple moved back to  .
373 philadelphia After suffering a series of strokes, Reyher eventually became paralyzed before his death on October 8, 1967. After suffering a series of strokes  eventually became paralyzed before his death on   .
374 philadelphia An unusually detailed accounting of the storm's passage through Richmond County, NC was provided two days later:  a local resident undertook an informal, but detailed survey of the damage produced by the storm, and this account was published in an Anson County (NC) newspaper. An unusually detailed accounting of the storm's passage through  ,  was provided   :  a local resident undertook an informal, but detailed survey of the damage produced by the storm, and this account was published in an   () newspaper.
375 philadelphia This accounting establishes a steady SW-to-NE movement through the county, with a number of buildings - sharecropper cabins, large homes, and a mill - swept away along the path. This accounting establishes a steady SW-to-NE movement through the county, with a number of buildings - sharecropper cabins, large homes, and a mill - swept away along the path.
376 philadelphia As the storm passed  SE of downtown Rockingham, it may have peaked in intensity; it was noted that all structures along a  segment of the path (beginning at this point) were destroyed. As the storm passed  SE of downtown , it may have peaked in intensity; it was noted that all structures along a  segment of the path (beginning at this point) were destroyed.
377 philadelphia The surveyor noted a path width of  to , with the most extreme damage (and most deaths) in the Philadelphia Church community. The surveyor noted a path width of  to , with the most extreme damage (and most deaths) in the   community.
378 philadelphia The surveyor noted that: The surveyor noted that:
379 philadelphia Tracking to the northeast, it crossed the Pee Dee River into Richmond County, and produced sporadic damage until just southeast of Rockingham. Tracking to the northeast, it crossed the Pee Dee River into  , and produced sporadic damage until just southeast of .
380 philadelphia Extreme damage to pine forests was first noted just south of town. Extreme damage to pine forests was  noted just south of town.
381 philadelphia Strengthening considerably, the storm swept through the southeast edge of Rockingham, where large homes were destroyed to their foundations, and large hardwood trees were snapped at ground level. Strengthening considerably, the storm swept through the southeast edge of , where large homes were destroyed to their foundations, and large hardwood trees were snapped at ground level.
382 philadelphia The Philadelphia Church community (presently on US Highway 1, 3 miles northeast of downtown Rockingham) was devastated, with most of the poorly constructed dwellings in the community completely destroyed. The   community (presently on  Highway ,  miles northeast of downtown ) was devastated, with most of the poorly constructed dwellings in the community completely destroyed.
383 philadelphia The storm had widened to nearly 1 mile in width at this point. The storm had widened to nearly  mile in width at this point.
384 philadelphia Andolsek's name will forever be linked to other NFL tragedies. 's name will forever be linked to other  tragedies.
385 philadelphia In 1989, Andolsek's LSU offensive line teammate, Ralph Norwood, was killed in an automobile accident during his rookie season with the Atlanta Falcons. In , 's  offensive line teammate,  , was killed in an automobile accident during his rookie season with the  .
386 philadelphia During the 1991 season, Detroit Lions offensive line teammate Mike Utley was paralyzed during a football game. During the  season,   offensive line teammate   was paralyzed during a football game.
387 philadelphia Two days after Andolsek's death, Philadelphia Eagles defensive tackle Jerome Brown was killed in an automobile accident. after 's death,   defensive tackle   was killed in an automobile accident.
388 philadelphia And two years after Andolsek's death, linebacker Toby Caston was also killed in an automobile accident. And   after 's death, linebacker   was also killed in an automobile accident.
389 philadelphia Ironically, Caston was Andolsek's teammate with both LSU and the Detroit Lions. Ironically,  was 's teammate with both  and the  .
390 philadelphia "Erica Pratt" was an American kidnapping victim. " " was an  kidnapping victim.
391 philadelphia She was abducted on July 22, 2002 from a Philadelphia sidewalk. She was abducted on    from a  sidewalk.
392 philadelphia There was one witness present, a 6 year old child named Rani Byrd. There was  witness , a    child named  .
393 philadelphia Rani tried to help Erica but was pushed to the ground before two men pulled off. tried to help  but was pushed to the ground before  men pulled off.
394 philadelphia When Erica's grandmother called for Erica and her sister, a crying Rani stated that Erica had been kidnapped, but her sister was around the corner. When 's grandmother called for  and her sister, a crying  stated that  had been kidnapped, but her sister was around the corner.
395 philadelphia Erica's abductors bound her hands and feet and held her captive in a vacant house until she was able to free herself by gnawing at the tape on her wrists and then smashing a window, a day after the kidnapping. 's bductors bound her hnds nd feet nd held her cptive in  vcnt house until she ws ble to free herself by gnwing t the tpe on her wrists nd then smshing  window,  dy fter the kidnpping.
396 philadelphia Both Pratt's bravery and the media's handling of the situation attracted considerable attention. Both 's bravery and the media's handling of the situation attracted considerable attention.
397 philadelphia Prof. Wiggins was asked to comment by the New York Times on November 24, 1892 on an alleged collision between the Earth and a comet, reported by Prof. Snyder of Philadelphia. Prof.  was asked to comment by the    on    on an alleged collision between the  and a comet reported by Prof.  of .
398 philadelphia Prof Wiggins stated that no such collision occurred on November 24, 1892 since there was no comet near the Earth at the time of the collision. stated that no such collision occurred on    since there was no comet near the  at the time of the collision.
399 philadelphia Prof Wiggins theorized that a Comet could not collide with the Earth because planets and comets are electrically positive and therefore repel each other, "If a comet were to strike the earth it would smash the comet into meteoric dust in twenty minutes." theorized that a Comet could not collide with the  because planets and comets are electrically positive and therefore repel each other, "If a comet were to strike the earth it would smash the comet into meteoric dust in  ."
400 philadelphia There have been case studies of claims made. There have been case studies of claims made.
401 philadelphia Following a Kathryn Kuhlman 1967 fellowship in Philadelphia, Dr. William A. Nolen conducted a case study of 23 people who claimed to have been cured during her services. Following a    fellowship in , Dr.    conducted a case study of  people who claimed to have been cured during her services.
402 philadelphia Nolen's long-term follow-ups concluded there were no cures in those cases. 's long-term follow-ups concluded there were no cures in those cases.
403 philadelphia Furthermore, "one woman who was said to have been cured of spinal cancer threw away her brace and ran across the stage at Kuhlman's command; her spine collapsed the next day, according to Nolen, and she died four months later." Furrmore, " woman who was said to have been cured of spinal cancer threw away her brace and ran across  stage at 's command; her spine collapsed   , according to , and she died   ."
404 philadelphia In 1976, Kuhlman died in Tulsa, Oklahoma, following open-heart surgery. In ,  died in , , following open-heart surgery.
405 philadelphia The film opens with Philadelphia Police Detective John Hobbes (Denzel Washington) in a snowy wood. The film opens with  Police Detective   ( ) in a snowy wood.
406 philadelphia In the present day, Hobbes gains notoriety for capturing serial killer Edgar Reese (Elias Koteas). In   , Hobbes gains notoriety for capturing serial killer   ( ).
407 philadelphia After Reese is executed, Hobbes and his partner Jonesy (John Goodman) investigate a string of murders by an apparent copycat killer. After  is executed,  and his partner  ( ) investigate a string of murders by an apparent copycat killer.
408 philadelphia Eventually Hobbes tracks down the killer and confronts him alone, where the man makes a startling claim: he is the same killer Hobbes sentenced to death, but not Edgar Reese; rather, he is the demon Azazel, and was possessing Reese's body during the murders. Eventually  tracks down the killer and confronts him alone, where the man makes a startling claim: he is the same killer  sentenced to death, but not  ; rather, he is the demon , and was possessing 's body during the murders.
409 philadelphia Azazel claims he can possess any person merely by touching them. claims he can possess any person merely by touching them.
410 philadelphia One of the few exceptions is Detective Hobbes, which has turned Azazel's ire at the Detective for capturing him into an obsession. of the few exceptions is Detective Hobbes, which has turned 's ire at the Detective for capturing him into an obsession.
411 philadelphia Hobbes is skeptical of Azazel's claims until the demon begins to sing "Time Is on My Side", then begins to possess people via touch, continuing to sing the song as he moves from body to body before fading away into the crowd of people on the street. Hobbes is skeptical of 's claims until the demon begins to sing "Time Is on My Side", then begins to possess people via touch, continuing to sing the song as he moves from body to body before fading away into the crowd of people on the street.
412 philadelphia Hobbes follows a lead from a riddle Azazel gave him concerning Robert Milano, a decorated cop who committed suicide in his mountain cabin 30 years earlier. Hobbes follows a lead from a riddle  gave him concerning  , a decorated cop who committed suicide in his mountain cabin   .
413 philadelphia Hobbes locates Milano's daughter, Gretta (Embeth Davidtz), who explains that her father was framed for corruption and killed himself to avoid his eventual conviction. locates 's daughter,  ( ), who explains that her father was framed for corruption and killed himself to avoid his eventual conviction.
414 philadelphia When Hobbes journeys to the cabin, he finds a clue uncovering a deeper truth: when he died Milano was trying to kill Azazel. When  journeys to the cabin, he finds a clue uncovering a deeper truth: when he died  was trying to kill .
415 philadelphia In Philadelphia itself, the combination of snow and sleet closed many of the schools, delayed flights, trains and buses. In  itself, the combination of snow and sleet closed many of the schools, delayed flights, trains and buses.
416 philadelphia The school district parochial schools were closed on the 14th, as were the regional and central administrative offices. The school district parochial schools were closed on the , as were the regional and central administrative offices.
417 philadelphia During the midday hours on the 14th, giant slabs of ice slid off tops of buildings in Center City and crashed to the ground. During the midday  on the , giant slabs of ice slid off tops of buildings in   and crashed to the ground.
418 philadelphia Chunks of ice as large as three feet wide made their way to the pavement from high up. Chunks of ice as large as  feet wide made their way to the pavement from high up.
419 philadelphia Police started to block off areas where the ice was falling, however one man was hit in the head by the falling ice and was knocked to the ground. Police started to block off areas where the ice was falling, however  man was hit in the head by the falling ice and was knocked to the ground.
420 philadelphia In Monroe County, state police closed Interstates 80 and 380 during the afternoon of the 14th because of bad road conditions. In  , state police closed Interstates  and 3 during the afternoon of the  because of bad road conditions.
421 philadelphia Interstate 80 was closed between Interstates 81 and 380. Interstate  was closed between Interstates  and 3.
422 philadelphia The combination of a heavy snowfall then a mix of sleet, snow and freezing rain made for hazardous road conditions. The combination of a heavy snowfall then a mix of sleet, snow and freezing rain made for hazardous road conditions.
423 philadelphia The mixed precipitation made it more difficult for some road crews to keep up. The mixed precipitation made it more difficult for some road crews to keep up.
424 philadelphia At 4 PM EST on the 17th the interstates reopened after ice was removed and the road surfaces was safe for travel. At 4 PM EST on the  the interstates reopened after ice was removed and the road surfaces was safe for travel.
425 philadelphia In and around the Greater Philadelphia Metropolitan area, in Bucks County, slippery road conditions contributed to a tractor-trailer accident on the 14th on Route 309 in Richland Township. In and around the Greater   area, in  , slippery road conditions contributed to a tractor-trailer accident on the  on Route  in  .
426 philadelphia The highway was closed for more than an hour, which forced motorists to detour on slush-covered side streets. The highway was closed for    , which forced motorists to detour on slush-covered side streets.
427 philadelphia In Pottstown, a large portion of the roof of a four-story building was blown off, forcing residents to evacuate the building. In , a large portion of the roof of a four-story building was blown off, forcing residents to evacuate the building.
428 philadelphia An  pillar was knocked down at the First Moravian Church in Easton. An  pillar was knocked down at the    in .
429 philadelphia In Northampton County, a fire sparked by fallen power lines destroyed a barn and partially melted a nearby metal shed. In  , a fire sparked by fallen power lines destroyed a barn and partially melted a nearby metal shed.
430 philadelphia The blaze was fully contained by 40 firefighters. The blaze was fully contained by  firefighters.
431 philadelphia Another fire sparked by fallen power lines destroyed a garage in Lower Merion Township. Another fire sparked by fallen power lines destroyed a garage in   .
432 philadelphia In Philadelphia, the roof of a portable classroom began to peel off, forcing the forty students inside to evacuate to a safer structure. In , the roof of a portable classroom began to peel off, forcing the  students inside to evacuate to a safer structure.
433 philadelphia A large tree fell through one house and severely damaged the roof of a nearby home. A large tree fell through  house and severely damaged the roof of a nearby home.
434 philadelphia Numerous major highways and local streets were shut down for several hours to allow cleanup crews to clear debris. Numerous major highways and local streets were shut down for   to allow cleanup crews to clear debris.
435 philadelphia Throughout the state, damages from the storm system amounted to $3.7 million. Throughout the state, damages from the storm system amounted to $3.7 million.
436 philadelphia Some heroin dealers mix fentanyl powder with heroin to increase potency or compensate for low-quality heroin. Some heroin dealers mix fentanyl powder with heroin to increase potency or compensate for low-quality heroin.
437 philadelphia In 2006, illegally manufactured, non-pharmaceutical fentanyl often mixed with cocaine or heroin caused an outbreak of overdose deaths in the United States, heavily concentrated in the cities of Dayton, Ohio; Chicago; Detroit; Philadelphia; Baltimore; Pittsburgh; St. Louis; Milwaukee; Camden, New Jersey; Little Rock; and Dallas were also affected. In , illegally manufactured, non-pharmaceutical fentanyl often mixed with cocaine or heroin caused an outbreak of overdose deaths in the  , heavily concentrated in the cities of , ; ; ; ; ; ;  ; ; ,  ;  ; and  were also affected.
438 philadelphia The mixture of fentanyl and heroin is known as "magic" or "the bomb", among other names, on the street. The mixture of fentanyl and heroin is known as "magic" or "the bomb", among other names, on the street.
439 philadelphia J.W. Buel. .
440 philadelphia 1890. .
441 philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found Emin Pasha. Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
442 philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in Africa, from the earliest ages to the present time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of Stanley's famous relief of Emin Pasha, replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as represented in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as Henry M. Stanley, Emin Pasha, Gen. (Chinese) Gordon, and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for more than one thousand years, have made Africa a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring. A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
443 philadelphia Covering the whole history of African exploration and discovery. Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
444 philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent. Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
445 philadelphia New Edition. New Edition.
446 philadelphia Philadelphia, PA, St. Louis, MO: Historical Publishing Company. , ,  , :   .
447 philadelphia J.W. Buel. .
448 philadelphia 1890. .
449 philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found Emin Pasha. Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
450 philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in Africa, from the earliest ages to the present time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of Stanley's famous relief of Emin Pasha, replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as represented in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as Henry M. Stanley, Emin Pasha, Gen. (Chinese) Gordon, and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for more than one thousand years, have made Africa a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring. A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
451 philadelphia Covering the whole history of African exploration and discovery. Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
452 philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent. Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
453 philadelphia New Edition. New Edition.
454 philadelphia Philadelphia, PA, St. Louis, MO: Historical Publishing Company. , ,  , :   .
455 philadelphia J.W. Buel. .
456 philadelphia 1890. .
457 philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found Emin Pasha. Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
458 philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in Africa, from the earliest ages to the present time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of Stanley's famous relief of Emin Pasha, replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as represented in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as Henry M. Stanley, Emin Pasha, Gen. (Chinese) Gordon, and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for more than one thousand years, have made Africa a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring. A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
459 philadelphia Covering the whole history of African exploration and discovery. Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
460 philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent. Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
461 philadelphia New Edition. New Edition.
462 philadelphia Philadelphia, PA, St. Louis, MO: Historical Publishing Company. , ,  , :   .
463 philadelphia J.W. Buel. .
464 philadelphia 1890. .
465 philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found Emin Pasha. Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
466 philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in Africa, from the earliest ages to the present time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of Stanley's famous relief of Emin Pasha, replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as represented in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as Henry M. Stanley, Emin Pasha, Gen. (Chinese) Gordon, and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for more than one thousand years, have made Africa a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring. A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
467 philadelphia Covering the whole history of African exploration and discovery. Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
468 philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent. Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
469 philadelphia New Edition. New Edition.
470 philadelphia Philadelphia, PA, St. Louis, MO: Historical Publishing Company. , ,  , :   .
471 philadelphia queen Nzinga was living during this time. queen  was living during this time.
472 philadelphia J.W. Buel. .
473 philadelphia 1890. .
474 philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found Emin Pasha. Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
475 philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in Africa, from the earliest ages to the present time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of Stanley's famous relief of Emin Pasha, replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as represented in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as Henry M. Stanley, Emin Pasha, Gen. (Chinese) Gordon, and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for more than one thousand years, have made Africa a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring. A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
476 philadelphia Covering the whole history of African exploration and discovery. Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
477 philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent. Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
478 philadelphia New Edition. New Edition.
479 philadelphia Philadelphia, PA, St. Louis, MO: Historical Publishing Company. , ,  , :   .
480 philadelphia J.W. Buel. .
481 philadelphia 1890. .
482 philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found Emin Pasha. Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
483 philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in Africa, from the earliest ages to the present time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of Stanley's famous relief of Emin Pasha, replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as represented in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as Henry M. Stanley, Emin Pasha, Gen. (Chinese) Gordon, and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for more than one thousand years, have made Africa a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring. A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
484 philadelphia Covering the whole history of African exploration and discovery. Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
485 philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent. Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
486 philadelphia New Edition. New Edition.
487 philadelphia Philadelphia, PA, St. Louis, MO: Historical Publishing Company. , ,  , :   .
488 philadelphia J.W. Buel. .
489 philadelphia 1890. .
490 philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found Emin Pasha. Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
491 philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in Africa, from the earliest ages to the present time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of Stanley's famous relief of Emin Pasha, replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as represented in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as Henry M. Stanley, Emin Pasha, Gen. (Chinese) Gordon, and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for more than one thousand years, have made Africa a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring. A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
492 philadelphia Covering the whole history of African exploration and discovery. Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
493 philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent. Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
494 philadelphia New Edition. New Edition.
495 philadelphia Philadelphia, PA, St. Louis, MO: Historical Publishing Company. , ,  , :   .
496 philadelphia J.W. Buel. .
497 philadelphia 1890. .
498 philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found Emin Pasha. Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
499 philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in Africa, from the earliest ages to the present time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of Stanley's famous relief of Emin Pasha, replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as represented in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as Henry M. Stanley, Emin Pasha, Gen. (Chinese) Gordon, and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for more than one thousand years, have made Africa a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring. A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
500 philadelphia Covering the whole history of African exploration and discovery. Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
501 philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent. Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
502 philadelphia New Edition. New Edition.
503 philadelphia Philadelphia, PA, St. Louis, MO: Historical Publishing Company. , ,  , :   .
504 philadelphia J.W. Buel. .
505 philadelphia 1890. .
506 philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found Emin Pasha. Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
507 philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in Africa, from the earliest ages to the present time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of Stanley's famous relief of Emin Pasha, replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as represented in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as Henry M. Stanley, Emin Pasha, Gen. (Chinese) Gordon, and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for more than one thousand years, have made Africa a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring. A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
508 philadelphia Covering the whole history of African exploration and discovery. Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
509 philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent. Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
510 philadelphia New Edition. New Edition.
511 philadelphia Philadelphia, PA, St. Louis, MO: Historical Publishing Company. , ,  , :   .
512 philadelphia J.W. Buel. .
513 philadelphia 1890. .
514 philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found Emin Pasha. Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
515 philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in Africa, from the earliest ages to the present time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of Stanley's famous relief of Emin Pasha, replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as represented in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as Henry M. Stanley, Emin Pasha, Gen. (Chinese) Gordon, and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for more than one thousand years, have made Africa a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring. A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
516 philadelphia Covering the whole history of African exploration and discovery. Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
517 philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent. Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
518 philadelphia New Edition. New Edition.
519 philadelphia Philadelphia, PA, St. Louis, MO: Historical Publishing Company. , ,  , :   .
520 philadelphia Fire Insurance has over 200 years of history in America. Fire Insurance has over   of history in .
521 philadelphia The early fire marks of Benjamin Franklin's time can still be seen on some Philadelphia buildings as well as in other older American cities. The early fire marks of  's time can still be seen on some  buildings as well as in other older  cities.
522 philadelphia Subscribers paid fire fighting companies in advance for fire protection and in exchange would receive a fire mark to attach to their building. Subscribers paid fire fighting companies in advance for fire protection and in exchange would receive a fire mark to attach to their building.
523 philadelphia The payments for the fire marks supported the fire fighting companies. The payments for the fire marks supported the fire fighting companies.
524 philadelphia Volunteer fire departments were also common in the United States, and some fire insurers contributed money to these departments and awarded bonuses to the first fire engine arriving at the scene of a fire. Volunteer fire departments were also common in the  , and some fire insurers contributed money to these departments and awarded bonuses to the  fire engine arriving at the scene of a fire.
525 philadelphia The role of incendiary vessels changed throughout the age of the modern fire ship. The role of incendiary vessels changed throughout the age of the modern fire ship.
526 philadelphia The systematic use of fire ships as part of naval actions peaked around the Third Anglo-Dutch War. The systematic use of fire ships as part of naval actions peaked around the   War.
527 philadelphia Whereas just twenty years before a naval fleet might have six to seven fire ships, by the Battle of Solebay in 1672 both the Dutch and English fleets employed typically between 20 and 30 fire ships, and sometimes more. Whereas just   before a naval fleet might have  to  fire ships, by the Battle of  in  both the    fleets employed typically between    fire ships,  sometimes more.
528 philadelphia By this time, however, admirals and captains had become very experienced with the limitations of fire ship attacks and had learned how to avoid them during battle. By this time, however, admirals and captains had become very experienced with the limitations of fire ship attacks and had learned how to avoid them during battle.
529 philadelphia Great numbers of fire ships were expended during the Third Dutch War without destroying enemy men-of-war, and fire ships had become a way to harass and annoy the enemy, rather than destroy him. Great numbers of fire ships were expended during the    without destroying enemy men-of-war, and fire ships had become a way to harass and annoy the enemy, rather than destroy him.
530 philadelphia The successful use of fire ships at the Battle of La Hogue and Cherbourg in 1692 marked both the greatest achievement of a fire ship attack since the Spanish Armada, and also the last significant success for fire ships. The successful use  fire ships at the     and  in  marked both the greatest achievement  a fire ship attack since the  , and also the last significant success for fire ships.
531 philadelphia Though fire ships as a specified class sailed with the British Royal Navy for another century, they would never have a significant impact on a naval victory. Though fire ships as a specified class sailed with the    for  , they would never have a significant impact on a naval victory.
532 philadelphia Once the most feared weapons in naval arsenals, fire ships had declined in both importance and numbers, so that by the mid-18th century only five to six British fire ships would be at sea at a time, and the Royal Navy attempted only four attacks using modern fire ships between 1697 and 1800. most feared weapons in naval arsenals, fire ships had declined in both importance  numbers, so that by    only  to   fire ships would be at sea at a time,     attempted only  attacks using modern fire ships between   .
533 philadelphia Hastily outfitted ad hoc fire ships continued to be used in naval warfare; for example, a large number of fire rafts were used in mostly ineffective attacks on the British fleet by American forces during the American Revolution at Philadelphia, on the Hudson River, and elsewhere. Hastily outfitted ad hoc fire ships continued to be used in naval warfare; for example, a large number of fire rafts were used in mostly ineffective attacks on the  fleet by  forces during the   at , on the  , and elsewhere.
534 philadelphia The end of the modern fire ship came in the early 19th century, when the British began to use hastily outfitted fire ships at engagements such as Boulogne and Dunkirk despite the presence of purpose-built fire ships in the fleet. The end of  modern fire ship came in    , when   began to use hastily outfitted fire ships at engagements such as Boulogne and  despite  presence of purpose-built fire ships in  fleet.
535 philadelphia The last modern fire ship in the British Royal Navy was "Thais", the only designated fire ship out of the entire navy of 638 warships when she was converted to a ship sloop in 1808. The last modern fire ship in the    was "Thais", the only designated fire ship out of the entire navy of  warships when she was converted to a ship sloop in .
536 philadelphia On July 17, 1856, Fort Washington was the site of one of the worst train accidents in the United States when two North Pennsylvania Railroad trains collided with one another near the Sandy Run station (later renamed to Camp Hill, now the defunct Fellwick Station). On      was the site of  of the worst train accidents in the   when    Railroad trains collided with  another near the   station (later renamed to    the defunct Fellwick Station).
537 philadelphia The exact number of deaths is uncertain, but 59 were killed instantly and dozens more perished from their injuries. The exact number of deaths is uncertain, but  were killed instantly and dozens more perished from their injuries.
538 philadelphia Many of the dead were children from St. Michael's Roman Catholic Church from the Kensington section of Philadelphia, who were traveling to Sheaff's Woods, a park in the Fort Washington area, for a Sunday school picnic. Many of the dead were children from  's    from the  section of , who were traveling to 's , a park in the   area, for a  school picnic.
539 philadelphia In Philadelphia, an on-duty cop gets a call from a man he calls "Colonel" to pick up a briefcase at a nearby train station. In , an on-duty cop gets a call from a man he calls "Colonel" to pick up a briefcase at a nearby train station.
540 philadelphia As he does so, a nearby pulse causes electronics to gain static, and his body becomes hardened. As he does so, a nearby pulse causes electronics to gain static, and his body becomes hardened.
541 philadelphia He explodes, killing eleven people and injuring others with his hardened body parts. He explodes, killing  people and injuring others with his hardened body parts.
542 philadelphia Initially thinking the explosion was caused by a bomb, the Fringe team arrives to investigate, and discover that instead of a bomb, the cop's body parts killed the others. Initially thinking the explosion was caused by a bomb, the Fringe team arrives to investigate, and discover that instead of a bomb, the cop's body parts killed the others.
543 philadelphia A further autopsy reveals needle marks between the cop's toes, and they realize he was injecting some type of drug every day for at least a year. A further utopsy revels needle mrks between the cop's toes, nd they relize he ws injecting some type of drug every dy for    yer.
544 philadelphia Everything appeared in order as the train passed through North Philadelphia station ahead of schedule and slowed its speed, but shortly afterward, as it passed a rail yard, workers noticed flames coming from a journal box (a hot box) on one of the cars  and rang the next signal tower at Frankford Junction, but the call came too late. Everything appeared in order as the train passed through   station ahead of schedule and slowed its speed, but shortly afterward, as it passed a rail yard, workers noticed flames coming from a journal box (a hot box) on  of the cars  and rang the next signal tower at  , but the call came too late.
545 philadelphia Before the tower man could react, disaster struck as the train passed his signal tower at 6:06 pm traveling at a speed of 56 mph. Before the tower man could react, disaster struck as the train passed his signal tower at 6:06 pm traveling at a speed of  mph.
546 philadelphia The journal box on the front of car #7 seized and an axle snapped, catching the underside of the truck and catapulting the car upwards. The journal box on the front of car #7 seized and an axle snapped, catching the underside of the truck and catapulting the car upwards.
547 philadelphia It struck a signal gantry, which peeled off its roof along the line of windows "like a can of sardines". It struck a signal gantry, which peeled off its roof along the line of windows "like a can of sardines".
548 philadelphia Car #8 wrapped itself around the gantry upright in a figure U. Car #8 wrapped itself around the gantry upright in a figure U.
549 philadelphia The next six cars were scattered at odd angles over the tracks, and the last two cars remained undamaged, with bodies of the 79 dead lying scattered over the tracks. The next  cars were scattered at odd angles over the tracks, and the last  cars remained undamaged, with bodies of the  dead lying scattered over the tracks.
550 philadelphia As it was wartime, many servicemen home on leave were aboard who helped the injured, workers from the nearby Cramp's shipyard arrived with acetylene torches to cut open cars to rescue the injured, a process that took until the following morning. As it was wartime, many servicemen home on leave were aboard who helped  injured, workers from  nearby Cramp's shipyard arrived with acetylene torches to cut open cars to rescue  injured, a process that took until   .
551 philadelphia The rescue work was directed by mayor Bernard Samuel. The rescue work was directed by mayor  .
552 philadelphia The work of removing the dead was not complete until 24 hours after the accident. The work of removing the dead was not complete until   after the accident.
553 philadelphia At 2:13pm, January 14, 1951, National's Flight 83, a DC-4, landed in Philadelphia from Newark, New Jersey, enroute to Norfolk, Virginia. At 2:13pm    National's Flight  a DC-4 landed in  from    enroute to  .
554 philadelphia It skidded off the icy runway, through a fence, and into a ditch. It skidded off the icy runway, through a fence, and into a ditch.
555 philadelphia The left wing broke off, rupturing the gasoline tanks, and the plane caught fire. The left wing broke off, rupturing the gasoline tanks, and the plane caught fire.
556 philadelphia Housley opened the emergency door and saw the ground eight feet below. opened the emergency door and saw the ground  feet below.
557 philadelphia Returning to the cabin, she helped passengers release their seat belts, guided them to the door and gave a gentle shove to those who were hesitant to jump. Returning to the cabin, she helped passengers release their seat belts, guided them to the door and gave a gentle shove to those who were hesitant to jump.
558 philadelphia After saving 10 passengers, she returned to the cabin to try to rescue a baby. After saving  passengers, she returned to the cabin to try to rescue a baby.
559 philadelphia After the fire was extinguished, the bodies of five women and two infants were found. After the fire was extinguished, the bodies of  women and  infants were found.
560 philadelphia One of the women was Frankie Housley with a four-month old infant in her arms. of the women was   with a   infant in her arms.
561 philadelphia In December 1902, Dunlap died penniless and alone at age 43. In  ,  died penniless and alone at age .
562 philadelphia According to the "Sporting Life", the "last two years of his life were spent in abject poverty and mental gloom." According to the "Sporting Life", the "   of his life were spent in abject poverty and mental gloom."
563 philadelphia He reportedly lived in a "seedy Philadelphia rooming house," and died of "consumption of the bowels" at Philadelphia Hospital." He reportedly lived in a "seedy  rooming house," and died of "consumption of the bowels" at  ."
564 philadelphia According to several accounts, a policeman at the morgue saw the body and believed it to be Dunlap. According to several accounts, a policeman at the morgue saw the body and believed it to be .
565 philadelphia Lave Cross was called to the morgue and confirmed that the body was Dunlap. was called to the morgue and confirmed that the body was .
566 philadelphia His funeral was poorly attended by his former baseball colleagues, and one former player who did attend observed, "There were not enough friends of Dunlap at his funeral to bury him and we had to call on the hack drivers to make up the list of active pall-bearers." His funeral was poorly attended by his former baseball colleagues, and  former player who did attend observed, "There were not enough friends of  at his funeral to bury him and we had to call on the hack drivers to make up the list of active pall-bearers."
567 philadelphia Following Dunlap's death, William A. Phelon, Jr., editor of "Sporting Life" wrote:"So Fred Dunlap has passed into the great beyond, and the man whose salary figure marked the high-water limit of the long ago is gone! Following 's death,   , , editor of "Sporting Life" wrote:"So   has passed into the great beyond, and the man whose salary figure marked the high-water limit of the long ago is gone!
568 philadelphia ... What a ball player this Dunlap was and what an artist in getting the fat salaries! ... What a ball player this  was and what an artist in getting the fat salaries!
569 philadelphia ... Dunlap was a real infielder of the type so popular ten years ago --  one of the solid, bulky style through whom no grounder seemed able to pass, but who could nevertheless wave the hot ones goodbye with graceful ease when occasion demanded. ...  was a real infielder of the type so popular    --   of the solid, bulky style through whom no grounder seemed able to pass, but who could nevertheless wave the hot s goodbye with graceful ease when occasion demanded.
570 philadelphia With the gloves now in use to aid, Dunny would have been even a bigger wonder now than then." With the gloves  in use to aid,  would have been even a bigger wonder  than then."
571 philadelphia Fred Sherman, a resident of King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, died on September 12, 2009, at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia at the age of 85. Sherman had suffered from several health problems, including kidney ailments, and injuries from a car accident several weeks before his death may have contributed to his declining health. a resident  King    died on    at the Hospital  the    in  at the age  . had suffered from  health problems, including kidney ailments, and injuries from a car accident   before his death may have contributed to his declining health.
572 philadelphia He suffered the car accident shortly after returning from a trip to Europe in July 2009, and had been hospitalized on several occasions since the accident. He suffered the car accident shortly after returning from a trip to  in  , and had been hospitalized on several occasions since the accident.
573 philadelphia The bridge passes over an oil refinery (originally owned by Gulf Oil, now by Sun Oil). The bridge passes over an oil refinery (originally owned by  ,  by  ).
574 philadelphia It has been imperiled a few times by fires at the refinery. It has been imperiled a few times by fires at the refinery.
575 philadelphia On August 17, 1975, fire broke out in a tank to the northeast of the bridge that was being filled with Venezuelan crude oil. On    fire broke out in a tank to the northeast of the bridge that was being filled with  crude oil.
576 philadelphia As the fire enveloped much of the refinery, several explosions put a large crack in a smokestack next to the bridge. As the fire enveloped much of the refinery, several explosions put a large crack in a smokestack next to the bridge.
577 philadelphia Officials closed the bridge for several hours, fearing that the stack might collapse or the fire might damage the bridge. Officials closed the bridge for  , fearing that the stack might collapse or the fire might damage the bridge.
578 philadelphia The 1975 Philadelphia Refinery Fire also killed eight firefighters. The     also killed  firefighters.
579 philadelphia Luks was found dead by a police officer in October, 1933 after he had died in the early hours of the morning after a bar room brawl. was found dead by a police officer in   after he had died in    of  morning after a bar room brawl.
580 philadelphia Ira Glackens, the son of William Glackens, wrote of his recollection of Luks's death, stating that the papers proclaimed George was found dead at the doorway when he had planned on going to paint the dawn, when in actuality, the harmless old man had been beaten to death by one of the other customers at the bar. , the son of  , wrote of his recollection of 's death, stating that the papers proclaimed  was found dead at the doorway when he had planned on going to paint the dawn, when in actuality, the harmless old man had been beaten to death by  of the other customers at the bar.
581 philadelphia In reference to his funeral, it was crowded by family and past and present friends. In reference to his funeral, it was crowded by family and  and  friends.
582 philadelphia He was buried in an eighteenth-century embroidered waistcoat that was one of his most important and valuable possessions. He was buried in an  embroidered waistcoat that was  of his most important and valuable possessions.
583 philadelphia According to newspaper reports, Luks funeral took place in New York City on Broadway 31-Oct-1933. According to newspaper reports,  funeral took place in    on Broadway 31-Oct-1933.
584 philadelphia His body was then transferred for burial via the Reading Railroad, Philadelphia PA to Royersford PA on the 11:25 train. His body was then transferred for burial via the  ,   to   on the 11:25 train.
585 philadelphia A brief ceremony took place and he was buried with his late parents, Mr. & Mrs. Emil Luks. A brief ceremony took place and he was buried with his late parents, Mr. & Mrs.  .
586 philadelphia Fernwood Cemetery. Fernwood Cemetery.
587 philadelphia On November 18, 1986, Carangi, aged 26, died of AIDS-related complications. On     aged  died of AIDS-related complications.
588 philadelphia Her closed-casket funeral (recommended by the funeral director due to the ravages of AIDS, which was not properly understood at the time) was held on November 21 at a small funeral home in Philadelphia. Her closed-casket funeral (recommended by the funeral director due to the ravages of , which was not properly understood at the time) was held on   at a small funeral home in .
589 philadelphia Nobody from the fashion world attended, mainly because no one knew about her death until months after she had died. Nobody from the fashion world attended, mainly because no  knew about her death until  after she had died.
590 philadelphia However, weeks later, Francesco Scavullo, Carangi's friend and confidant, sent a Mass card when he heard the news. However,  ,  , 's friend and confidant, sent a Mass card when he heard the news.
591 philadelphia Following the capitulation of Italy in 1943, Germany damaged the Italian battleship "Italia" and sank the "Roma" with Fritz-X bombs. Following the capitulation of  in ,  damaged the  battleship "Italia" and sank the "Roma" with Fritz-X bombs.
592 philadelphia Attacks were also made on the USS "Savannah", causing much damage and loss of life. Attacks were also made on the USS "Savannah", causing much damage and loss of life.
593 philadelphia HMS "Warspite" was hit by three Fritz-X, and although casualties were few, had to be towed to Malta for repair and was out of action for six months. HMS "Warspite" was hit by  Fritz-X, and although casualties were few, had to be towed to  for repair and was out of action for  .
594 philadelphia The cruiser USS "Philadelphia" was very slightly damaged by several near misses of Fritz-X bombs. The cruiser USS "" was very slightly damaged by several near misses of Fritz-X bombs.
595 philadelphia The light cruiser HMS "Uganda" was also hit and put out of action for almost the entire war as a result. The light cruiser HMS "" was also hit and put out of action for almost the entire war as a result.
596 philadelphia The winter storm wreaked havoc at Philadelphia International Airport had most flights on the 16th cancelled and it took a couple of days for flights to return to normal. The  storm wreked hvoc t    hd most flights on the  cncelled nd it took    dys for flights to return to norml.
597 philadelphia The largest impact of the winter storm within Philadelphia was the cancellation of most of the 1,200 scheduled flights at the Philadelphia International Airport. The largest impact of the  storm within  was the cancellation of most of the  scheduled flights at the   .
598 philadelphia About 1,000 people were stranded at the airport the night of the 16th. About  people were stranded at the airport the night of the .
599 philadelphia Passengers on about 15 U.S. Airways planes sat on the tarmac for over four hours before gates became available to deplane them. Passengers on about    planes sat on the tarmac for over   before gates became available to deplane them.
600 philadelphia Operations resumed on the 17th, but U.S. Airways still had to cancel about one quarter of its flights because the weather prevented crews and planes from arriving in Philadelphia. Operations resumed on the , but   still had to cancel    of its flights because the weather prevented crews and planes from arriving in .
601 philadelphia About 100 travelers slept at the airport on the night of the 18th. About  travelers slept at the airport on the night of the .
602 philadelphia Normal operations resumed on the 19th. Normal operations resumed on the .
603 philadelphia One reason for the fire's duration was the lack of national standards in fire-fighting equipment. reason for the fire's duration was the lack of national standards in fire-fighting equipment.
604 philadelphia Fire crews and fire engines came from as far away as Philadelphia and Washington that day (units from New York City were on the way, but were blocked by a train accident; they arrived the next day). Fire crews and fire engines came from as far away as  and  that  (units from    were on  way, but were blocked by a train accident; y arrived   ).
605 philadelphia The crews brought their own equipment. The crews brought their own equipment.
606 philadelphia Most could only watch helplessly when they discovered that their hoses could not fit Baltimore's hydrants. Most could only watch helplessly when they discovered that their hoses could not fit 's hydrants.
607 philadelphia High winds and freezing temperatures added to the difficulty for firefighters and further contributed to the severity of the fire. High winds and freezing temperatures added to the difficulty for firefighters and further contributed to the severity of the fire.
608 philadelphia As a result, the fire burned over 30 hours, destroying 1,545 buildings spanning 70 city blocks &mdash; amounting to over . As a result, the fire burned over  , destroying  buildings spanning  city blocks &mdash; amounting to over .
609 philadelphia The fire began in the evening in a five-story warehouse at 25 Merchant Street (now called Beaver Street) at the intersection with Pearl Street between Hanover Square, Manhattan and Wall Street in the snow-covered city and was fed by gale-force winds blowing from the northwest towards the East River. The fire began in the evening in a five-story warehouse at  Merchant Street ( called Beaver Street) at the intersection with Pearl Street between  ,  and Wall Street in the s-covered city and was fed by gale-force winds blowing from the northwest towards the  .
610 philadelphia With temperatures as low as  and the East River frozen solid, firefighters had to cut holes in the ice to get water. With temperatures as low as  and the   frozen solid, firefighters had to cut holes in the ice to get water.
611 philadelphia Water then froze in the hoses and pumps. Water then froze in the hoses and pumps.
612 philadelphia Attempts to blow up buildings in its path (a technique later regarded as counterproductive) were thwarted by a lack of gunpowder in Manhattan. Attempts to blow up buildings in its path (a technique later regarded as counterproductive) were thwarted by a lack of gunpowder in .
613 philadelphia Firefighters coming to help from Philadelphia said they could see signs of the fire there. Firefighters coming to help from  said they could see signs of the fire there.
614 philadelphia The morning of April 11 saw a third of the city smoldering ruins, a forest of chimneys and walls amid a heap of ruins, although occasional buildings that were inexplicably left untouched amid the destruction. The morning of   saw a  of the city smoldering ruins, a forest of chimneys and walls amid a heap of ruins, although occasional buildings that were inexplicably left untouched amid the destruction.
615 philadelphia It was said that “the best half of the city” had been burned, an area representing 60 acres, and the entire Second Ward of the city had just two or three dwellings untouched. It was said that “ best half of  city” had been burned, an area representing  acres, and    Ward of  city had just  or  dwellings untouched.
616 philadelphia Local artist William Coventry Wall captured this landscape in a series of paintings which he quickly had printed as a lithograph. Local artist    captured this landscape in a series of paintings which he quickly had printed as a lithograph.
617 philadelphia This was published in Philadelphia and saw a broad market, as did prints by Nathaniel Currier in Boston and James Baillie in New York (both of whom based their works on newspaper reports), in line with a growing trend of ‘disaster prints.’ This was published in  and saw a broad market, as did prints by   in  and   in   (both of whom based their works on newspaper reports), in line with a growing trend of ‘disaster prints.’
618 philadelphia The fire destroyed as many as 1200 buildings, while displacing 2000 families, about 12,000 individuals, from their homes. The fire destroyed as many as  buildings, while displacing  families, about  individuals, from their homes.
619 philadelphia On the hills surrounding the city could be seen piles of household belongings. On the hills surrounding the city could be seen piles of household belongings.
620 philadelphia Surprisingly, only 2 people died. Surprisingly, only  people died.
621 philadelphia One was lawyer Samuel Kingston, who was thought to have returned to his house to rescue a piano but lost his bearings in the heat and smoke, his body being found in the basement of a neighbor’s destroyed house. was lawyer  , who was thought to have returned to his house to rescue a piano but lost his bearings in the heat and smoke, his body being found in the basement of a neighbor’s destroyed house.
622 philadelphia The other body was not found until weeks later, and is thought to be that of a Mrs. Maglone, whose family had advertised not having seen her since the fire. The other body was not found until  , and is thought to be that of a Mrs. , whose family had advertised not having seen her since the fire.
623 philadelphia Estimates of cost range from $5 to $25 million, one recent author placing it at $12,000,000, which he equated with $267 million in 2006 dollars. Estimates of cost range from $5 to $25 million, one recent author placing it at $12,000,000, which he equated with $267 million in  dollars.
624 philadelphia Almost none of this was recoverable, as all but one of Pittsburgh's insurers were bankrupted by the disaster. Almost n of this was recoverable, as all but  of 's insurers were bankrupted by the disaster.
625 philadelphia "The Great Train Wreck of 1856" occurred between Camp Hill and Fort Washington, Pennsylvania, on July 17, 1856. "The Great Train Wreck of " occurred between   and    on   .
626 philadelphia Two trains, traveling on the same track in converging directions, collided, killing between 59 and 67, and injuring over 100. trains, traveling on the same track in converging directions, collided, killing between   ,  injuring over .
627 philadelphia The incident was referred to as "The Camp Hill Disaster" in Montgomery County, and "The Picnic Train Tragedy" in the city of Philadelphia. The incident was referred to as "The Camp Hill Disaster" in  , and "The Picnic Train Tragedy" in the city of .
628 philadelphia It was the deadliest railroad catastrophe in the world up to that time and became one of the signature events of its era. It was the deadliest railroad catastrophe in the world up to that time and became  of the signature events of its era.
629 philadelphia A method for performing a decapitation illusion, where a person's head is apparently severed and displayed on a plate next to their headless body, was described in "The Discoverie of Witchcraft" by Reginald Scot, published in 1584. A method for performing a decapitation illusion, where a person's head is apparently severed and displayed on a plate next to their headless body, was described in "The Discoverie of Witchcraft" by  , published in .
630 philadelphia A decapitation illusion involving the apparent beheading of two boys and a dove was also recorded as being performed by Jacob Philadelphia in 1765. A decapitation illusion involving the apparent beheading of  boys and a dove was also recorded as being performed by   in .
631 philadelphia Pitezel had agreed to fake his own death so that his wife could collect on the $10,000 policy, which she was to split with Holmes and the shady attorney, Howe. had agreed to fake his own death so that his wife could collect on the $10,000 policy, which she was to split with  and the shady attorney, .
632 philadelphia The scheme, which was to take place in Philadelphia, was that Pitezel should set himself up as an inventor, under the name B.F. Perry, and then be killed and disfigured in a lab explosion. The scheme, which was to take place in , was that  should set himself up as an inventor, under the name  , and then be killed and disfigured in a lab explosion.
633 philadelphia Holmes was to find an appropriate cadaver to play the role of Pitezel. was to find an appropriate cadaver to play the role of .
634 philadelphia Holmes instead killed Pitezel. instead killed .
635 philadelphia Forensic evidence presented at Holmes's later trial showed that chloroform was administered "after" Pitezel's death, presumably to fake suicide. Forensic evidence presented at 's later trial showed that chloroform was administered "after" 's death, presumably to fake suicide.
636 philadelphia (Pitezel had been an alcoholic and chronic depressive.) ( had been an alcoholic and chronic depressive.)
637 philadelphia Holmes proceeded to collect on the policy on the basis of the genuine Pitezel corpse. proceeded to collect on the policy on the basis of the genuine Pitezel corpse.
638 philadelphia He then went on to manipulate Pitezel's wife into allowing three of her five children (Alice, Nellie, and Howard) to stay in his custody. He then went on to manipulate 's wife into allowing  of her  children (, , and ) to stay in his custody.
639 philadelphia The eldest daughter and baby remained with Mrs. Pitezel. The eldest daughter and baby remained with Mrs. .
640 philadelphia He traveled with the children through the northern United States and into Canada. He traveled with the children through the northern   and into .
641 philadelphia Simultaneously, he escorted Mrs. Pitezel along a parallel route, all the while using various aliases and lying to Mrs. Pitezel concerning her husband's death (claiming that Pitezel was in hiding in South America) as well as lying to her about the true whereabouts of her other children—they were often separated by only a few blocks. Simultaneously, he escorted Mrs.  along a parallel route, all the while using various aliases and lying to Mrs.  concerning her husband's death (claiming that  was in hiding in  ) as well as lying to her about the true whereabouts of her other children—they were often separated by only a few blocks.
642 philadelphia A Philadelphia detective, Frank P. Geyer, had tracked Holmes, finding the decomposed bodies of the two Pitezel girls in Toronto buried in the cellar of 16 St. A  detective,   , had tracked , finding the decomposed bodies of the   girls in  buried in the cellar of
643 philadelphia Vincent Street. .
644 philadelphia He then followed Holmes to Indianapolis, where Holmes had rented a cottage. He then followed  to , where  had rented a cottage.
645 philadelphia Holmes was reported to have visited a local pharmacy to purchase the drugs which he used to kill Howard Pitezel, and a repair shop to sharpen the knives he used to chop up the body before he burned it. was reported to have visited a local pharmacy to purchase the drugs which he used to kill  , and a repair shop to sharpen the knives he used to chop up the body before he burned it.
646 philadelphia The boy's teeth and bits of bone were discovered in the home's chimney. The boy's teeth and bits of bone were discovered in the home's chimney.
647 philadelphia When Philadelphia fell to the British in 1777, several American vessels found themselves trapped between the city and the British fleet further down the Delaware River. When  fell to the  in , several  vessels found themselves trapped between the city and the  fleet further down the  .
648 philadelphia The Americans launched some three fire ships towards the British, but gunfire from "Roebuck", "Camilla", and other British vessels caused the Americans to set their ships on fire too soon, and to abandon them. The  launched some  fire ships towards the , but gunfire from "Roebuck", "Camilla", and other  vessels caused the  to set their ships on fire too soon, and to abandon them.
649 philadelphia British boats were able to pull the fire ships on shore where they could do no harm. boats were able to pull the fire ships on shore where they could do no harm.
650 philadelphia On April 30, 1896, Disston had dinner with the mayor of Philadelphia and attended a theatre production with his wife in Philadelphia. On     had dinner with the mayor of  and attended a theatre production with his wife in .
651 philadelphia The following morning, he was found dead at age 51. , he was found dead at age .
652 philadelphia Although some claim that Disston committed suicide in his bathtub with a self-inflicted gunshot to the head, almost every obituary, as well as the official coroner's report, stated that he died of heart disease in bed. Although some claim that  committed suicide in his bathtub with a self-inflicted gunshot to the head, almost every obituary, as well as the official coroner's report, stated that he died of heart disease in bed.
653 philadelphia "The New York Times" further reported that, several months before his death, Disston suffered from a bout of typhoid pneumonia. "The   " further reported that,   before his death,  suffered from a bout of typhoid pneumonia.
654 philadelphia Heat waves are the most lethal type of weather phenomenon, overall. Heat waves are the most lethal type of weather phenomenon, overall.
655 philadelphia Between 1992 and 2001, deaths from excessive heat in the United States numbered 2,190, compared with 880 deaths from floods and 150 from hurricanes. Between  and , deaths from excessive heat in the   numbered , compared with  deaths from floods and  from hurricanes.
656 philadelphia The average annual number of fatalities directly attributed to heat in the United States is about 400. The average annual number of fatalities directly attributed to heat in the   is about .
657 philadelphia The 1995 Chicago heat wave, one of the worst in US history, led to approximately 600 heat-related deaths over a period of five days. The   heat wave,  of the worst in  history, led to approximately  heat-related deaths over a period of  .
658 philadelphia Eric Klinenberg has noted that in the United States, the loss of human life in hot spells in summer exceeds that caused by all other weather events combined, including lightning, rain, floods, hurricanes, and tornadoes. has noted that in the  , the loss of human life in hot spells in  exceeds that caused by all other weather events combined, including lightning, rain, floods, hurricanes, and tornadoes.
659 philadelphia Despite the dangers, Scott Sheridan, professor of geography at Kent State University, found that less than half of people 65 and older abide by heat-emergency recommendations like drinking lots of water. Despite the dangers,  , professor of geography at   , found that less than half of people  and older abide by heat-emergency recommendations like drinking lots of water.
660 philadelphia In his study of heat-wave behavior, focusing particularly on seniors in Philadelphia, Phoenix, Toronto, and Dayton, Ohio, he found that people over 65 "don't consider themselves seniors." In his study of heat-wave behavior, focusing particularly on seniors in , , , and , , he found that people over  "don't consider themselves seniors."
661 philadelphia "Heat doesn't bother me much, but I worry about my neighbors," said one of his older respondents. "Heat doesn't bother me much, but I worry about my neighbors," said  of his older respondents.
662 philadelphia According to the Agency for Health care Research and Quality, about 6,200 Americans are hospitalized each summer due to excessive heat, and those at highest risk are poor, uninsured or elderly. According to the Agency for Health care Research and Quality, about   are hospitalized each  due to excessive heat, and those at highest risk are poor, uninsured or elderly.
663 philadelphia More than 70,000 Europeans died as a result of the 2003 European heat wave. More than   died as a result of the   heat wave.
664 philadelphia Hundreds of thousands of people were left without power across the region. Hundreds of thousands of people were left without power across the region.
665 philadelphia In the Philadelphia area alone over 500,000 people were without power at the peak of the storm, according to PECO and PSE&G. In the  area alone over  people were without power at the peak of the storm, according to  and .
666 philadelphia Many customers would remain without power until the weekend. Many customers would remain without power until  .
667 philadelphia The outage took place just after PECO had set record highs for electricity usage as a result of the extreme heat wave. The outage took place just after  had set record highs for electricity usage as a result of the extreme heat wave.
668 philadelphia Power crews from as far away as Chicago were called in to help restore power, after repairing the damage from the previous day's storms. Power crews from as far away as  were called in to help restore power, after repairing  damage from   's storms.
669 philadelphia A state of emergency was declared in Bucks County, Pennsylvania as a result of the storm. A state of emergency was declared in  ,  as a result of the storm.
670 philadelphia On October 8, 1998, while driving to Florida after being inducted into the [http://www.broadcastershalloffame.com/ Broadcasters Hall of Fame] the night before, Score was severely injured in a traffic accident. On   199 while driving to  after being inducted into the [http://www.broadcastershalloffame.com/ Broadcasters Hall of Fame] the night before  was severely injured in a traffic accident.
671 philadelphia Score pulled into the path of a westbound tractor-trailer truck in New Philadelphia, Ohio, and his car was struck in the passenger side. pulled into the path of a westbound tractor-trailer truck in  , , and his car was struck in the passenger side.
672 philadelphia He suffered trauma to his brain, chest and lungs. He suffered trauma to his brain, chest and lungs.
673 philadelphia The orbital bone around one of his eyes was fractured, as were three ribs and his sternum. The orbital b around  of his eyes was fractured, as were  ribs and his sternum.
674 philadelphia He spent over a month in the intensive care unit, and was released from MetroHealth Hospital in mid-December. He spent over   in the intensive cre unit, nd ws relesed from MetroHelth Hospitl in .
675 philadelphia He was cited for failure to stop at a stop sign. He was cited for failure to stop at a stop sign.
676 philadelphia One reason for the fire's duration was the lack of national standards in fire-fighting equipment. reason for the fire's duration was the lack of national standards in fire-fighting equipment.
677 philadelphia Although fire engines from nearby cities (such as Philadelphia and Washington, as well as units from New York, Wilmington, and Atlantic City) responded, many were useless because their hose couples failed to fit Baltimore hydrants. Although fire engines from nearby cities (such as  and , as well as units from  , , and  ) responded, many were useless because their hose couples failed to fit  hydrants.
678 philadelphia As a result, the fire burned over 30 hours, destroying 1,526 buildings and spanning 70 city blocks. As a result, the fire burned over  , destroying  buildings and spanning  city blocks.
679 philadelphia Late on December 16, 1835 the Great Fire of New York broke out. Late on    the Great Fire of   broke out.
680 philadelphia The temperature was below zero (F), and gale force winds were blowing. The temperature was below  (F), and gale force winds were blowing.
681 philadelphia Firemen, some called from as far away as Philadelphia, were at first helpless to battle the wind driven fire due to icing lines and pumps. , some called from as far away as , were at  helpless to battle the wind driven fire due to icing lines and pumps.
682 philadelphia The fire leveled most of the city below Canal Street. The fire leveled most of the city below Canal Street.
683 philadelphia Some merchandise was carried to churches that were thought fireproof, but several of these burned anyway. Some merchandise was carried to churches that were thought fireproof, but several of these burned anyway.
684 philadelphia Eventually the fire was controlled by blowing up buildings in the fire's path. Eventually the fire was controlled by blowing up buildings in the fire's path.
