The earthquake was felt sharply in New England, though the date recorded for the event was 26 January 1663, as New England was using the Julian calendar at the time.
A church record entry made by Reverend S. Danforth from Roxbury, Massachusetts (~ 600 km from the CSZ) indicated the initial shock was felt around 6 pm that evening and several more shocks followed the next morning.
On the shores of Massachusetts Bay, the tops of chimneys were broken on houses and pewter (a malleable metal alloy) was jarred from shelves.
This level of damage is consistent with a modified Mercalli intensity of VI though this may have been because the early colonials had the capability of producing only relatively weak mortar.
Using this MMI value and the distance from the epicenter one can estimate the magnitude of the earthquake using published intensity-attenuation relations.
In a June 2011 report on the earthquake that was published in the "Bulletin of the Seismological Society of America", John E. Ebel, a professor and researcher at Boston College, used these known relations that apply to earthquakes in northeastern North America and determined the magnitude to be 7.3 &mdash; 7.9.

Since the 1755 earthquake, Boston and its surrounding towns have become a major metropolitan area.
Much new construction has been built on infill, especially in the Back Bay area, which may be prone to greater shaking and to compaction of the sand and gravel used as fill.
Many older buildings in the Boston area are built from stone and brick, and are likely to collapse completely during a major earthquake.
Given this, modern observers have expressed concern about the effects of another quake in such a major city.
A 1990 study by the Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency estimated potential financial losses at between $4 billion and $5 billion, and potential loss of life in the hundreds.
As a consequence, the state has updated building codes and zoning laws to require that new construction and additions in vulnerable areas be built to resist earthquakes.

The "Cape Ann Earthquake" took place off the coast of the British Province of Massachusetts Bay (the present-day American commonwealth of Massachusetts) on November 18, 1755.
At between 6.0 and 6.3 on the Richter scale, it remains the largest earthquake in the history of Massachusetts.
It damaged hundreds of buildings in Boston and was felt as far north as Nova Scotia and as far south as South Carolina.
Sailors on a ship more than  offshore felt the quake, and mistook it at first for their ship running aground.
Many residents of Boston and the surrounding areas attributed the quake to God, and it occasioned a brief increase in religious fervor in the city.
Modern studies estimate that if a similar quake shook Boston today, it would result in as much as $5 billion in damage and hundreds of deaths.

The earthquake took place on November 18, 1755, at approximately 4:30 AM.
Its epicenter is believed to have been offshore, approximately  east of Cape Ann.
The quake was felt as far north as Halifax, Nova Scotia, south to the Chesapeake Bay and South Carolina, and from Lake George and Lake Champlain in the northwest to a ship  off the east coast.
Sailors on the ship reported that the quake was so strong, they had feared that they had run aground.
The region experienced a number of aftershocks, the first of which was a little more than an hour after the quake.
Most of these aftershocks could not be felt in Boston, affecting only the cape cod northeastern coast of the colony.

Boston and Cape Ann were the most heavily damaged.
In Boston, damage was concentrated in areas of infill near the harbor; infill is less sturdy in earthquakes than solid land.
From 1,300 to 1,600 chimneys in the city were damaged in some way, the gable ends of some houses collapsed, and a number of roofs were damaged by falling chimneys.
Stone chimneys and buildings were damaged in Falmouth (present-day Portland, Maine), Springfield, Massachusetts, and New Haven, Connecticut as well.
Some church steeples in Boston were damaged, ending up tilted from vertical.
Stone fencing in rural areas was damaged.
Observers also reported that several springs dried up, new ones were created, and cracks appeared in the ground near Scituate, Lancaster, and Pembroke.
In this last town, observers noted water and fine sand coming from the crack.
Non-structural damage was minor; residents reported damage to china and glassware, and a distiller lost some of his product after a cistern was damaged.
The Cape Ann earthquake may also have created the first recorded tsunami in U.S. history.
Observers in the Leeward Islands nearly  south of Cape Ann, reported a receding of water followed by a large wave that lifted several boats ashore and left fish floundering on the beach.

Sand blows were common throughout the area, and can still be seen from the air in cultivated fields.
The shockwaves propagated efficiently through the firm midwestern bedrock, with residents as far away as Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and Norfolk, Virginia, awakened by intense shaking.
Church bells were reported to ring as far as Boston, Massachusetts and York, Ontario (now Toronto), and sidewalks were reported to have been cracked and broken in Washington, D.C.
There were also reports of toppled chimneys in Maine.

In New England, the hurricane produced widespread gale force winds, with damage greatest in Connecticut.
The lighthouse in Black Rock, Connecticut, was destroyed.
Elsewhere in the state, the winds damaged or destroyed churches, houses and small buildings.
Moderate crop damage to fruit was reported as well.
Strong winds extended into eastern Massachusetts, though little damage was reported in the Boston area.

In the aftermath of the Battle of Carnifex Ferry in present-day West Virginia, Rutherford B. Hayes of the 23rd Ohio Infantry was camped south of the battlesite, where he wrote about a "very cold rain-storm" in a September 27 letter to his wife Lucy.
Conditions at the time were characterized by leaking tents and temperatures getting "colder and colder".
Hayes wrote, "We were out yesterday P.M. very near to the enemy's works; were caught in the first of this storm and thoroughly soaked.
I hardly expect to be dry again until the storm is over."
Strong winds buffeted the Burlington, New Jersey, area from early evening to midnight on September 27, uprooting trees and causing some damage to property.
Further north, Boston, Massachusetts, experienced intense winds and light rainfall for about five hours starting at midnight, with no initial reports of significant destruction.

However, the hurricane also had a significant impact on land.
Earlier in the year, Union forces had captured the fort guarding Hatteras Inlet at the Battle of Hatteras Inlet Batteries.
In the early morning hours of November 2, high seas began to overwash Hatteras Island, "completely covering all dry land except the position of the fort itself".
After four hours, water began to subside.
Extremely high tides associated with the cyclone continued up the coast as far north as Portland, Maine.
Storm tides at various points, including New York City, Newport, Rhode Island, and Boston, reached levels unseen for at least 10 years and up to 46 years.
In New York, the storm persisted for 20 hours starting early on November 2; rising waters inundated wharves along the East and Hudson Rivers.
Floodwaters flowed up to five blocks inland, and a popular bar located in a hotel became isolated by the flooding.
In response, a man transported customers to and from the bar on his private boat at a cost of two cents per ride.
Strong winds in Brooklyn brought down trees and telegraph wires.

Infrastructure throughout the Tri-State area suffered.
Parts of the New Jersey Railroad line were undermined, and the Shore Line Railway at Bridgeport was inundated.
Flooding was also prominent in the New Jersey Meadowlands and along the Newark Turnpike and Plank Road, which was left temporarily impassible.
Further east, the hurricane triggered coastal flooding along the shores of Long Island, while northeasterly winds blew several ships ashore along the northern coast of Long Island.
The eastern side of the hurricane blasted the southeastern New England coast between November 2 and November 3, damaging over 250 vessels at Provincetown, Massachusetts, and running aground 20 others.
Water from the Massachusetts Bay surged into the village of Wareham.
In downtown Boston, the storm began late on November 2 and lasted until late the next morning, although the highest tides did not occur until after conditions had already cleared.
Twenty-two occupants of the ship "Maritania" drowned when the vessel sank after striking a rock during the worst of the storm.
At the time, she was located  east of the Boston Light.

At landfall, the hurricane was compact, estimated around  wide.
However, less than 10 miles (16 km) west of the center, there were no strong winds.
The hurricane produced a storm surge of , which was lessened due to it moving ashore at low tide.
In Providence, Rhode Island, high waves damaged coastal wharves and left flooding.
The hurricane weakened quickly over land, passing just west of Boston early on September 9 as a minimal hurricane.
There, the winds downed many trees and left severe damage.
All telegraph lines between New York and Boston were cut, although the storm did produce beneficial heavy rainfall.
Shortly thereafter it dissipated over Maine.
There was one confirmed death in Massachusetts.
Offshore Maine, a schooner capsized, killing all but one in the crew.

Hurricane warnings were issued on August 21.
The warnings extended from Cape Hatteras to Boston.
The next day the warnings were extended to Southport, North Carolina.
Evacuations may or may not have taken place.

On September 14, forecasters issued storm warnings from Jacksonville, Florida to Beaufort, North Carolina.
Hours later, the warnings were extended to Virginia.
As the storm moved closer to land, forecasters predicted that the hurricane would hit North Carolina in 12 hours.
Because of this, hurricane and gale warnings were issued from North Carolina to Boston, Massachusetts.

On November 10, 1948, unseasonably warm temperatures caused a fog bank to occur inside the Boston Garden during a game between the Boston Bruins and Detroit Redwings.
Referee Bill Chadwick abandoned the game after only 9 minutes of the first period due to poor visibility.
The game was replayed the following night, with Boston winning 4-1.

Forecasters at the National Weather Service office in Boston believed that there was a possibility for tornadic activity in the area, but decided not to include it in their forecast for the day in fear that they would cause panic among local citizens.
1953 was the first year that tornado and severe thunderstorm warnings were used, so forecasters compromised and issued the first severe thunderstorm watch in the history of Massachusetts.
Because of this, the tornado struck with little to no warning for residents.

The earthquake was felt in 23 states and affected a zone of .
The shaking extended east to Pennsylvania and West Virginia, south to Mississippi and Alabama, north to Toronto, Canada, and west to Oklahoma.
Isolated reports were received from Boston, Mobile, Alabama, Pensacola, Florida, southern Ontario, Arkansas, Minnesota, Tennessee, Georgia, Kansas, Ohio, Mississippi, Kentucky, North Carolina, South Carolina, Missouri, West Virginia, Alabama, Nebraska, Iowa, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Pennsylvania, Michigan, and Wisconsin, presumably because of shaking.
The worst affected areas were in the general area of Evansville, Indiana, St. Louis, and Chicago, but there was no major damage.
There were no deaths; the worst injury was a child knocked unconscious by falling debris outside his home.

Eventually, plumbers were dispatched to shut off water to first the individual floors, then entire buildings.
By six that night, the Physical Plant director alerted Vice Chancellor for Administration and Finance George Beatty about the impending crisis.
Around forty five minutes later, the town manager was notified of the problem.
Around this time, water shortages were beginning to be noticed in the Southwest Residential Area.
In the Mildred Pierpont House, toilets wouldn’t stop flushing, a consequence of low water pressure.
By 9:30 that night, about 3,000 students were without water.
Chancellor Henry Koffler returned from meetings in Boston and was subsequently warned by Beatty that if the pressure continued to drop, the steam plant would have to be shut down, and research projects, air conditioning, and electrical systems would also have to be turned off.
All of this would prove costly.
By this time, students were travelling to Puffers Pond in North Amherst to clean up.
The chancellor was also urged by Hayward to close the campus.

The list below shows the names that appeared on the tropical cyclone naming list in the Atlantic basin in 1991.
Although the Perfect Storm later evolved into a hurricane, the National Hurricane Center left it unnamed due to the heavy damage and media interest in the predecessor extratropical storm.
It later received the name the "Perfect Storm" after a conversation between Boston National Weather Service forecaster Robert Case and author Sebastian Junger.
The names not retired from this list in 1991 appeared again on the naming list for the 1997 season.
This is the same list used for the 1985 season, with the exception of the names Erika and Grace, which replaced the names Elena and Gloria after the 1985 season, and were used for the first time in 1991.
Names that were not assigned are marked in .

Temperatures accompanying the storm were unseasonably cold for late winter so close to spring: average daily maximum temperatures, in mid-March, are around  in Boston,  in Philadelphia, and  in Atlanta.
During the 1993 storm, these places were all below freezing, and parts of New England saw daily maximum temperatures as low as .
Record low temperatures for March were recorded in much of the southern U.S.  Birmingham recorded a record low of  during the storm.

At 0605 Axis transports were seen advancing to within 2,000 yards of the 3rd Brigade positions and they were engaged with machine- and anti-tank gun fire from the Imperial Light Horse.
During the early morning hours, the 90th Light had lost direction and veered too far north, resulting in the clash with ILH.
While the Rand Light Infantry were driving off German towed artillery, South African Air Force Boston light bombers bombed their supply columns.
By 0730 the 90th Light had been halted and were pinned down by the South Africans, determined to avenge Gazala and the surrender of Tobruk.
The 90th Light only managing to extracate themselves under cover of a dust storm later in the day.
The Axis attack had been stopped all along the Allied line of defence.

On May 1, 2010, a water pipe in Weston, Massachusetts broke and began flooding into the Charles River.
This led to unsanitary water conditions in the greater Boston area which resulted in Governor Deval Patrick declaring a state of emergency and an order for residents to boil drinking water.
The leak was stopped on May 2. On May 4, the order was lifted.
President Barack Obama signed an emergency disaster declaration offering federal help, authorizing the Department of Homeland Security and Federal Emergency Management Agency to coordinate disaster relief efforts with Massachusetts.

The rupture worsened as the afternoon progressed, eventually resulting in the loss of access to clean water from the Quabbin and Wachusett Reservoirs for approximately two million residents of 31 cities and towns, including Boston.
At the height of the spill, approximately  of water entered the Charles River per hour.
By evening, the Massachusetts Water Resources Authority had activated the backup water system, which was drawing water from the Sudbury Reservoir, Chestnut Hill Reservoir, and Spot Pond Reservoir.
Because water from these older surface reservoirs is not treated, the MWRA issued a boil order for the affected communities.

On July 21, 2011, hot weather over the past week culminated into record-breaking temperatures across the province of Ontario, also in Michigan, Ohio, upstate New York and Quebec, shattering long held records.
Toronto reached  for the first time in nearly 10 years.
The humidex reached  at the downtown station by late afternoon.
It was deemed so hot that the unusual decision was made to close the dome at the Rogers Centre during the Toronto Blue Jays baseball game, usually done in the event of cold weather or rain.
The intense heat moved eastwards and  peaked along the US I-95 corridor on July 22, 2011, with New York City breaking the record for the day at , which was the hottest temperature the city had experienced in over three decades.
Newark, New Jersey also reached an all-time record high of , as did Washington Dulles International Airport in Virginia at .
Philadelphia surpassed its daily record when it reached , and Boston tied for the second highest temperature on record at , making it the hottest day in 85 years.
The heat was blamed for at least 25 deaths across the Midwest and the Northeast.
Daily high temperatures warmer than normal began on the southern plains during May 2011, accompanied by one of the most severe droughts ever recorded.
The heat wave continued to intensify, with temperatures in north Texas exceeding  most days beginning in mid-June.

The "2011 Vancouver Stanley Cup riot" was a public disturbance that broke out in the downtown core of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada on Wednesday, June 15, 2011.
The riots happened immediately after the conclusion of the Boston Bruins' win over the Vancouver Canucks in game seven of the Stanley Cup Finals, which won the Stanley Cup for Boston.
At least 140 people were reported as injured during the incident, one critically; at least four people were stabbed, nine police officers were injured, and 101 people were arrested that night, with 16 further arrests following the event.

The earthquake was felt throughout much of the six New England states.
In New Haven, Connecticut, play at the 2011 New Haven Open at Yale tennis tournament was stopped for two hours and the main stadium was evacuated while the fire department checked it for damage.
No damage or injuries were reported.
In Boston, the Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency reported tremors and swaying buildings but no damage.
The U.S. District Court in South Boston was evacuated and the University of Massachusetts Boston closed early.
In Maine, the earthquake was felt as far north as Augusta and Portland, but no damage was reported in the state.

After the publication of his first book about the American Civil War, Lord's literary agent suggested that he write about the Titanic since he knew Lord had researched the subject for his amusement.
Lord began his research for the book by going to the Library of Congress in Washington D.C. to read the United States inquiry into the sinking.
Realizing that he would have to interview survivors of the disaster to give him a full understanding of the sinking Lord, who was on a tight buget, began writing letters to the editors of various newspapers asking survivors to get in touch with him.
Lord sent his letters to papers in New York, Philadelphia, Boston, Chicago, Southampton, England, and Belfast Ireland places he felt people connected to the Titanic would come from.
Additionally he was put in touch with survivors through 20th Century Fox, who had just released the 1953 movie "Titanic", who had themeselves been in touch with several of the survivors.
Lord was eventually able to locate and correspond with nearly 60 survivors.

After fifteen minutes of combat, "Boston" lost its cross-jack yard and by 05:45 had suffered significant damage to its rigging and sails, rendering the ship significantly less manoeuvrable than "Embuscade".
At 06:10 the main topmast was knocked over and the mizzen mast badly damaged, and ten minutes later, as he was exhorting his men to greater efforts, a cannonball struck the rail where Captain Courtenay and Royal Marine Lieutenant James Butler were standing.
Butler was killed instantly and Courtenay fell to the deck unresponsive, possibly killed.
Believing his commander to be dead, Lieutenant John Edwards assumed command and had the bodies thrown overboard in an effort to prevent his sailors losing morale from the death of their captain.
"Boston" continued to suffer under the heavier guns of the French ship and by 06:40 the mizzen mast was close to collapse and much of the remaining rigging had been shot away.
Casualties mounted, with Lieutenant Edwards and Alexander Kerr both badly wounded, the latter blinded and the former struck on the head and briefly rendered unconscious.

On 5 May, , lying in wait off Point Judith, Rhode Island, sighted and fired on SS "Black Point", a collier underway for Boston, Massachusetts.
Her torpedoes struck, and within 15 minutes, "Black Point" had capsized in  of water, the last US-flagged merchant ship sunk in World War II.
Twelve men died and 34 were rescued.
One of the rescuing ships — SS "Kamen" — sent a report of the torpedoing that was picked up the destroyer , destroyer escorts  and , and frigate ; they discovered "U-853" bottomed in , and dropped more than 100 depth charges through the night.
The next morning, two blimps from Lakehurst, New Jersey — "K-16" and "K-58" — joined the attack, locating oil slicks and marking suspected locations with smoke and dye markers.
"K-16" also attacked with  rocket bombs.
Finally, planking, life rafts, a chart tabletop, clothing, and an officer's cap floated to the surface, indicating destruction with all 55 men.
"U-853" was destroyed at sometime between midnight, when success was first claimed, and 1225, when it was confirmed.

In contrast, in the Central and Eastern U.S. (CEUS) the crust is thicker, colder, older, and more stable.
Furthermore, the CEUS is thousands of miles from active plate boundaries, so the rates of deformation are low in this region.
Nevertheless, the CEUS has had some rather large earthquakes in historical times, including a series of major earthquakes near New Madrid, Missouri in 1811-1812, a large earthquake near Charleston, South Carolina in 1886, and the Cape Ann earthquake northeast of Boston in 1755.

This particular DC-9 had experienced a number of problems over the months leading up to the incident; 76 maintenance reports had been filed in the plane's logs in the previous year, and the CVR records Cameron telling Ouimet to "put [the tripping breakers] in the book there" when the breakers fail to respond to the first reset attempt at 18:52.
Nearly four years earlier, on September 17, 1979, the plane, then serving as Air Canada Flight 680 (Boston, Massachusetts to Yarmouth, Nova Scotia), had suffered an explosive decompression in the rear bulkhead that required rebuilding the tail section and replacing or splicing most of the wiring and hydraulic lines in the back of the plane; Cameron noted in an interview for the "Fire Flight" episode of "Mayday" that the Air Canada maintenance crew "did a heck of a job getting everything put back together" after the decompression incident.
Investigators were unable to find signs of arcing in any of the wire splices from the repairs done four years earlier, though much of the wiring in the rear of the plane was severely damaged or destroyed by the fire itself.

But the media did not ignore him.
ESPN's Buster Olney would write about his outbursts as a Cleveland Indian: :It was a taken in baseball circles that Albert Belle was nuts...
The Indians billed him $10,000 a year for the damage he caused in clubhouses on the road and at home, and tolerated his behavior only because he was an awesome slugger...
He slurped coffee constantly and seemed to be on a perpetual caffeinated frenzy.
Few escaped his wrath: on some days he would destroy the postgame buffet...launching plates into the shower... after one poor at-bat against Boston, he retreated to the visitors' clubhouse and took a bat to teammate Kenny Lofton's boombox.
Belle preferred to have the clubhouse cold, below 60 degrees, and when one chilly teammate turned up the heat, Belle walked over, turned down the thermostat and smashed it with his bat.
His nickname, thereafter, was "Mr.
Freeze."

Several ships were torpedoed within sight of East Coast cities such as New York and Boston; indeed, some civilians sat on beaches and watched battles between U.S. and German ships.
The only documented World War II sinking of a U-boat close to New England shores occurred on May 5, 1945, when the U-853 torpedoed and sank the collier "Black Point" off Newport, Rhode Island.
When the "Black Point" was hit, the U.S. Navy immediately chased down the sub and began dropping depth charges.
The next day, when an oil slick and floating debris appeared, they confirmed that the U-853 and its entire crew had been destroyed.
In recent years, the U-853 has become a popular dive site.
Its intact hull, with open hatches, is located in  of water off Block Island, Rhode Island.
A wreck discovered in 1991 off the New Jersey coast was concluded in 1997 to be that of U-869.
Previously, U-869 had been thought to have been sunk off Rabat, Morocco.

The 82nd Airborne's drop, mission "Boston", began at 01:51.
It was also a lift of 10 serials organized in three waves, totaling 6,420 paratroopers carried by 369 C-47s.
The C-47s carrying the 505th did not experience the difficulties that had plagued the 101st's drops.
Pathfinders on DZ O turned on their Eureka beacons as the first 82nd serial crossed the initial point and lighted holophane markers on all three battalion assembly areas.
As a result the 505th enjoyed the most accurate of the D-Day drops, half the regiment dropping on or within a mile of its DZ, and 75 per cent within .

Americana has tropical climate, with hot summers and chilly winters.
The median high temperature in summer is 84°F (29°C) and the median low is 64°F (18°C), comparable to Boston.
In winter, the median high temperature is 72°F (22°C) and the median low temperature is 50°F (10°C), comparable to Orlando, Florida.

On January 6, 1853, Benjamin "Bennie" Pierce, (1841&ndash;53) the 11-year-old son of President-elect Franklin Pierce and his wife Jane Pierce, was killed in a train accident in town.
The Boston & Maine noon express, traveling from Boston to Lawrence, was moving at 40 miles  per hour when an axle broke.
The only coach, in which Franklin Pierce was also riding, went down an embankment and broke in two.
(The baggage car and locomotive had remained on the track.)
Pierce's son was the only one killed, but it was initially reported that Pierce was also a fatality.
He was only badly bruised.
The Pierces had previously lost two other children.
The death is said to have cast a pall on the couple, especially Jane, who entertained hardly at all in the White House and spent much of her time writing letters to her dead children.
She died, still grief-stricken, in 1863.

Dubus was seriously injured in a car accident on the night of July 23, 1986.
He was driving from Boston to his home in Haverhill, Massachusetts, and he stopped to assist two disabled motorists—brother and sister Luis and Luz Santiago.
As Dubus assisted the injured Luz to the side of the highway, an oncoming car swerved and hit them.
Luis was killed instantly; Luz survived because Dubus had pushed her out of the way.
Dubus was critically injured and both his legs were crushed.
After a series of unsuccessful operations, his right leg was amputated above the knee, and he eventually lost the use of his left leg.
Dubus spent three years undergoing a series of painful operations and extensive physical therapy.
Despite his efforts to walk with a prosthesis, chronic infections confined him to a wheelchair for the remainder of his life, and he battled clinical depression as a result of his condition.
Over the course of these struggles Dubus's third wife left him, taking with her their two young daughters.

They tried to stand down during the storm just outside the Isles of Shoals, but the "James" lost all three anchors, as no canvas or rope would hold, but on Aug 13, 1635, torn to pieces, and not one death, all one hundred-plus passengers aboard the "James" managed to make it to Boston Harbor two days later.

The  that fell at Boston's Logan International Airport was the third-biggest snowstorm in Boston history (biggest in the month of April) behind the North American blizzard of 2003 () and the Northeastern United States blizzard of 1978  and made April 1997 the Boston's snowiest April on record (the previous record being a mere ).
It also set a record for Boston's greatest April 24-hour snowfall.
Parts of New England received 50 to 70 mph wind gusts at the height of the storm.
Providence recorded  of snow which was the fourth greatest on record at the time.
Other parts of New England reported more than   and up to three feet with Worcester receiving , the city's largest snowfall in history.

During the peak of the storm from about 11 p.m. March 31 to 3 a.m.
April 1, snow fell in Boston at the rate of  per hour.
Numerous lightning strikes and thunderclaps accompanied the extremely heavy snow, which accumulated one foot () in just that four hour period.
Moderate to heavy snow continued through midmorning before tapering off.

Prior to the storm, Boston had received just  of snow for the season.
On March 30, Boston was sunny with a high temperature of 63°F and a cold front passed the next day dropping the temperature into the 40s.
Just prior to dawn on Monday March 31, precipitation began to fall in the form of light rain.
In Boston the rain began to mix with wet snow mid-morning and eventually turned to wet snow and became heavier just after 7 p.m. From 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. the snow fell at a rate of at least  per hour.

A state of emergency was declared by Massachusetts Gov. William F. Weld.
The snow came down too fast for road crews to keep up with and roads became impassable and thousands of cars were stranded.
Commuter trolleys in Boston were closed for the first time in nearly twenty years, public transportation was crippled, about 1,000 motorists spent the night stranded in their cars and 4,000 stayed in shelters.
Some of the narrow side streets of Boston were completely buried and portions of Interstate 95 and Route 128 were shut down because of the snow.
The main roads and highways were cleared within a couple of days but the secondary roads remained a mess making travel difficult.
Two days after the storm, subways and commuter rails were still sluggish because of fallen trees and signal problems.

Fiedler had many different hobbies.
He was fascinated by the work of firefighters and would travel in his own vehicle to large fires in and around Boston at any time of the day or night to watch the firefighters at work.
He was even made an "Honorary Captain" in the Boston Fire Department.
A number of other fire departments gave him honorary fire helmets and/or badges.
The official biography of Fiedler reports that the conductor once helped in the rescue efforts at the tragic Cocoanut Grove fire in Boston in 1942.
An avid sailor, he volunteered during the early days of World War II for the Temporary Reserve of the U.S. Coast Guard and was later a member of the Coast Guard Auxiliary.

Ashland's climate is variable.
Winters are typically cold, with frequent Nor'easters and occasional blizzards.
Snowfall ranges widely from season to season, although the average is about .
In the recent past, there has been as little as  of snow (in the 1988–89 winter season) to 148 inches (in 1995–96).
The amount decreases dramatically eastward towards Boston because of the influence of the Atlantic Ocean.
Snowfall amounts can also decrease rapidly south of Ashland.
Low temperatures below zero are not uncommon in winter, and the lowest recent temperatures have been 17 below in January 1994 and 14 below in January 2011.
Average January high temperatures are in the low 30s.
Average January low temperatures are in the upper teens.
Snow depth can reach two feet or more during the winter season.
The winter of 2010-11 was notable for snow depths of nearly 40 inches during January and February.
Nearly 60 inches of snowfall was recorded in Ashland in January 2011 alone.
Spring temperatures can be mitigated by penetrating cold fronts originating from the Canadian Maritimes, known as "Backdoor Cold Fronts".
Typically, high temperatures consistently above 70 degrees do not set in until late May.
The last frost is usually in mid-May.
Summers are generally comfortable, with periods of high humidity.
Prolonged heat waves of three or more days with highs of 90 or above are uncommon but can occur.
In July 2011 an unusually high temperature of 101 was reached.
Average July high temperatures are in the low 80s and average lows are around 60. Severe summer weather is not as common as areas to the west in Central Massachusetts.
However, on July 10, 1989, high winds occurred causing widespread tree damage through most of Ashland with several homes damaged.
This storm was part of a complex of severe storms that spawned several EF0 and EF1 tornadoes in towns in some neighboring counties.
Fall is pleasant with the first frost usually around October 1, and the peak of the fall foliage season averages around October 12. Ashland can expect a "white" Christmas slightly over 50 percent of the time.

Adult ALBs can be seen from late spring to fall, depending on the climate.
The ALB was first discovered in the United States in 1996 in the Greenpoint section of Brooklyn.
Shortly after, another infestation was detected in Amityville on Long Island.
Since then infestations have been found in the Islip area of Long Island in Queens and in Manhattan.
In fact, several infested trees were removed around Central Park.
The ALB was discovered in Chicago in 1998.
An ALB infestation was detected in Hudson County, New Jersey in 2002 and in the Central New Jersey Middlesex and Union Counties in 2004.
In 2008 a sizeable infestation resulting in the removal of more than 28,000 trees was discovered in Worcester, Massachusetts.
Ongoing inspection of host trees within the  quarantine area of Worcester county has revealed that, since 2008, over 19,000 trees were infested; there is some evidence that the infestation may date back as far as 1997.
On July 5, 2010, six infested trees were found on the grounds of the Faulkner Hospital in the Jamaica Plain neighborhood of Boston, Massachusetts, which is across the street from the Arnold Arboretum, where an infestation is poised to devastate the oldest arboretum in America.
As of 2011, the ALB is considered a threat to the forestry industry in Ohio and steps are being taken to eradicate it.

The aurora is thought to have been produced by one of the most intense coronal mass ejections in history, very near the maximum intensity that the Sun is thought to be capable of producing.
It is also notable for the fact that it is the first time where the phenomena of auroral activity and electricity were unambiguously linked.
This insight was made possible not only due to scientific magnetometer measurements of the era, but also as a result of a significant portion of the  of telegraph lines then in service being significantly disrupted for many hours throughout the storm.
Some telegraph lines, however, seem to have been of the appropriate length and orientation to produce a sufficient geomagnetically induced current from the electromagnetic field to allow for continued communication with the telegraph operator power supplies switched off.
The following conversation occurred between two operators of the American Telegraph Line between Boston and Portland, Maine, on the night of 2 September 1859 and reported in the "Boston Traveler":

The auroras that resulted from the "great geomagnetic storm" on both 28 August and 2 September 1859 are thought the most spectacular in recent recorded history.
Balfour Stewart, in a paper to the Royal Society on 21 November 1861, described both auroral events as documented by a self-recording magnetograph at the Kew Observatory and established the connection between the 2 September 1859 auroral storm and the Carrington-Hodgson flare event when he observed that "it is not impossible to suppose that in this case our luminary was taken "in the act"."
The second auroral event, which occurred on 2 September 1859 as a result of the exceptionally intense Carrington-Hodgson white light solar flare on 1 September 1859, produced auroras so widespread and extraordinarily brilliant that they were seen and reported in published scientific measurements, ship logs, and newspapers throughout the United States, Europe, Japan, and Australia.
It was reported by the "New York Times" that in Boston on Friday 2 September 1859 the aurora was "so brilliant that at about one o'clock ordinary print could be read by the light".
One o'clock Boston time on Friday 2 September, would have been 6:00 GMT and the self-recording magnetograph at the Kew Observatory was recording the geomagnetic storm, which was then one hour old, at its full intensity.
Between 1859 and 1862, Elias Loomis published a series of nine papers on the Great Auroral Exhibition of 1859 in the "American Journal of Science" where he collected world wide reports of the auroral event.

The works on Breed's Hill did not go unnoticed by the British.
General Clinton, out on reconnaissance that night, was aware of them, and tried to convince Gage and Howe that they needed to prepare to attack the position at daylight.
British sentries were also aware of the activity, but most apparently did not think it cause for alarm.
Then, in the early predawn, around 4:00 am, a sentry on board  spotted the new fortification, and notified her captain.
"Lively" opened fire, temporarily halting the colonists' work.
Aboard his flagship , Admiral Samuel Graves awoke, irritated by the gunfire that he had not ordered.
He stopped it, only to have General Gage countermand his decision when he became fully aware of the situation in the morning.
He ordered all 128 guns in the harbor, as well as batteries atop Copp's Hill in Boston, to fire on the colonial position, which had relatively little effect.
The rising sun also alerted Prescott to a significant problem with the location of the redoubt – it could easily be flanked on either side.
He promptly ordered his men to begin constructing a breastwork running down the hill to the east, deciding he did not have the manpower to also build additional defenses to the west of the redoubt.

Some of Stark's men were engaged in driving the livestock further up the coast.
Others noticed that "Diana" was in trouble, and called for reinforcements.
General Putnam and as many as 1000 troops (including Joseph Warren) came up on the shore near "Diana", a place at the mouth of Chelsea Creek, in the modern Chelsea neighborhood by the McArdle bridge to East Boston.
Putnam waded out into the harbor up to his waist and offered quarter to the sailors of "Diana" if they would surrender, but its cannon continued to fire, and attempts to tow her into deeper water continued.
Colonial forces continued firing on the ship, supported by two field pieces positioned on the shore.
"Britannia" and field pieces the British had landed on Noddle's Island also joined the cannonade.
At about 10 pm, the British rowers were forced to abandon the rescue of "Diana" due to the heavy fire.
"Diana" drifted and ran aground again on the Mystic River side of the Chelsea coast, tipping onto one side.
Lieutenant Graves abandoned "Diana" and transferred his men to "Britannia", which was successfully towed to deeper water.

A captains' conference on the "Olympia" revealed little damage and no men killed.
It was discovered that the original ammunition message had been garbled - instead of only 15 rounds of ammunition per gun remaining, the message had meant to say only 15 rounds of ammunition per gun had been expended.
During the conference reports arrived that sounds of exploding ammunition had been heard and fires sighted on the "Cristina" and "Castilla".
At 10:40 AM action was resumed but the Spanish offered little resistance and Montojo issued orders for the remaining ships to be scuttled and the breechblocks of their guns taken ashore.
The "Olympia", "Baltimore" and "Boston" then fired on the Sangley Point battery putting it out of action and followed up by sinking the "Ulloa".
The "Concord" fired on the transport "Mindanao", whose crew immediately abandoned ship.
The "Petrel" fired on the government offices next to the arsenal and a white flag was raised over the building after which all firing ceased.
The Spanish colors were struck at 12:40 PM.

On 5 May, "U-853" was lying in wait off the point when she sighted and fired on the SS "Black Point", a collier with armed guards aboard underway for Boston, Massachusetts.
Her torpedoes struck, and within fifteen minutes, "Black Point" had capsized in  of water, the last American-flagged merchant ship sunk in the war.
Twelve men died, including one of the guards, and thirty-four others were rescued by nearby vessels.
One of the rescuing ships, the SS "Kamen", sent a report of the torpedoing that was picked up by Eastern Sea Frontier HQ, in New York, and 1st Naval District HQ, in Boston, who immediately started to assemble a search and destroy mission.

The attacks continued through the night, and at 0530 oil, planking, life rafts, a chart tabletop, clothing, and an officer's cap were detected.
Nevertheless destruction of "U-853" was not accepted by HQ in Boston, and the hunt continued.
After daybreak, two K class blimps, "K-16" and "K-58", from Lakehurst, New Jersey, joined the attack, locating oil slicks and marking suspected locations with smoke and dye markers.
"K-16" also attacked with  rocket bombs.
Finally, at 1207, Eastern Sea Frontier HQ accepted the destruction of the U-boat, and the hunt was called off.

The men Arnold chose for his expedition were volunteers drawn from New England companies serving in the Siege of Boston.
They were formed into two battalions for the expedition; a third battalion was composed of riflemen from Pennsylvania and Virginia under Lieutenant Colonel Daniel Morgan's command.
The trek through the wilderness of Maine was long and difficult.
The conditions were wet and cold, and the journey took much longer than either Arnold or Washington had expected.
Bad weather and wrecked boats spoiled much of the expedition's food stores, and about 500 men of the original 1,100 died en route or turned back.
Those who turned back, including one of the New England battalions, took many of the remaining provisions with them.
The men who continued on were starving by the time they reached the first French settlements in early November.
On November 9, the 600 survivors of Arnold's march from Boston to Quebec arrived at Point Levis, on the south shore of the Saint Lawrence opposite Quebec City.
Despite the condition of his troops, Arnold immediately began to gather boats to make a crossing.
He was prepared to do so on the night of November 10, but a storm delayed him for three days.
Once on the other side of the Saint Lawrence, Arnold moved his troops onto the Plains of Abraham, about 1.5 miles (2 km) from the city walls.

Percy took the land route across Boston Neck and over the Great Bridge, which some enterprising colonists had stripped of its planking to delay their way.
His men then came upon an absent-minded tutor at Harvard College and asked him which road would take them to Lexington.
The Harvard man, apparently oblivious to the reality of what was happening around him, showed him the proper road without thinking.
(He was later compelled to leave the country for inadvertently supporting the enemy.)
Percy's troops arrived in Lexington at about 2:00 pm.
They could hear gunfire in the distance as they set up their cannon and lines of regulars on high ground with commanding views of the town.
Colonel Smith's men approached like a fleeing mob with the full complement of colonial militia in close formation pursuing them.
Percy ordered his artillery to open fire at extreme range, dispersing the colonial militiamen.
Smith's men collapsed with exhaustion once they reached the safety of Percy's lines.

The British began to awaken their troops at 9 pm on the night of April 18 and assembled them on the water's edge on the western end of Boston Common by 10 pm.
The British march to and from Concord was a disorganized experience from start to finish.
Colonel Smith was late in arriving, and there was no organized boat-loading operation, resulting in confusion at the staging area.
The boats used were naval barges that were packed so tightly that there was no room to sit down.
When they disembarked at Phipps Farm in Cambridge, it was into waist-deep water at midnight.
After a lengthy halt to unload their gear, the regulars began their  march to Concord at about 2 am.
During the wait they were provided with extra ammunition, cold salt pork, and hard sea biscuits.
They did not carry knapsacks, since they would not be encamped.
They carried their haversacks (food bags), canteens, muskets, and accoutrements, and marched off in wet, muddy shoes and soggy uniforms.
As they marched through Menotomy, sounds of the colonial alarms throughout the countryside caused the few officers who were aware of their mission to realize they had lost the element of surprise.
One of the regulars recorded in his journal,

The ride of Revere, Dawes, and Prescott triggered a flexible system of "alarm and muster" that had been carefully developed months before, in reaction to the colonists' impotent response to the Powder Alarm.
This system was an improved version of an old network of widespread notification and fast deployment of local militia forces in times of emergency.
The colonists had periodically used this system all the way back to the early years of Indian wars in the colony, before it fell into disuse in the French and Indian War.
In addition to other express riders delivering messages, bells, drums, alarm guns, bonfires and a trumpet were used for rapid communication from town to town, notifying the rebels in dozens of eastern Massachusetts villages that they should muster their militias because the regulars in numbers greater than 500 were leaving Boston, with possible hostile intentions.
This system was so effective that people in towns  from Boston were aware of the army's movements while they were still unloading boats in Cambridge.
These early warnings played a crucial role in assembling a sufficient number of colonial militia to inflict heavy damage on the British regulars later in the day.
Adams and Hancock were eventually moved to safety, first to what is now Burlington and later to Billerica.

It was the deadliest fire in the United States since 1942 when 491 people were killed in the Cocoanut Grove fire in Boston.

On September 15, 2004, a major leak in the Interstate 93 north tunnel forced the closure of the tunnel while repairs were conducted.
This also forced the Turnpike Authority to release information regarding its non-disclosure of prior leaks.
A follow-up reported on "extensive" leaks that were more severe than state authorities had previously acknowledged.
The report went on to state that the $14.6 billion tunnel system was riddled with more than 400 leaks.
A "Boston Globe" report, however, countered that by stating there were nearly 700 leaks in a single  section of tunnel beneath South Station.
Turnpike officials also stated that the number of leaks being investigated was down from 1,000 to 500.

The "Big Dig ceiling collapse" occurred on July 10, 2006, when a concrete ceiling panel weighing 3 tons (2722 kg) and measuring 20 by 40 ft (6.1 by 12.2 m) fell in Boston's Fort Point Channel Tunnel.
The panel fell on a car traveling on the two-lane ramp connecting northbound I-93 to eastbound I-90 in South Boston, killing a passenger and injuring the driver.
The collapse caused a section of the tunnel to be closed for almost a full year.

On 16 March 1943, Newton led a sortie on the Salamaua Isthmus in which his Boston was hit repeatedly by Japanese anti-aircraft fire, damaging fuselage, wings, fuel tanks and undercarriage.
In spite of this he continued his attack and dropped his bombs at low level on buildings, ammunition dumps and fuel stores, returning for a second pass at the target in order to strafe it with machine-gun fire.
Newton managed to get his crippled machine back to base, where it was found to be marked with ninety-eight bullet holes.
Two days later, he and his two-man crew made a further attack on Salamaua with five other Bostons.
As he bombed his designated target, Newton's plane was seen to burst into flames, raked by cannon fire from the ground.
Attempting to keep his aircraft aloft as long as possible to get his crew away from enemy lines, he was able to ditch in the sea approximately  offshore.

Just two months later, on June 6, Black Eagle Dam suffered damage in yet another flood.
Almost  of rain fell in 24 hours, and the Missouri River rose by almost  in eight hours.
The Missouri River rose  above flood stage (which itself was  above the median water level).
Five people in the city drowned.
The Boston and Montana smelter toppled four fully loaded railroad cars into the Missouri just north of Black Eagle Dam in an attempt to divert the floodwaters from the plant.
The worst flood in the city's history at the time, several buildings in town were also washed away.
They smashed against Black Eagle Dam, and some went over the dam to break up on the waterfalls below.
The pedestrian suspension bridge over the dam also washed out.
(A plaque was placed on the 6th Street underpass to mark the extent of the high water.
It can be seen there today.)
The dam itself suffered some damage as well.
This damage was repaired, and the old wooden bridge to Tailrace Island replaced with a single-span steel Warren truss bridge capable of handling automobiles.
The island now began to also serve as a parking lot for powerhouse and smelter workers.

On April 14, 1908, at about 2:30 PM, Hauser Dam—a steel dam about 90 miles upstream from Great Falls— failed.
A surge of water  to  high swept downstream.
A Great Northern Railway locomotive was dispatched to the city of Great Falls, warning stations along the way about the dam break.
Workers at the Boston and Montana Smelter in Great Falls improvised a wing dam to deflect the floodwaters away from the smelter site and dynamited a portion of Black Eagle Dam to allow the floodwaters to go downstream.
Their efforts were not needed, as the Missouri River only rose  by the time it reached that city.
Two deaths occurred while the dynamiting attempt was made, however: One man drowned while trying to remove flashboards from the dam, and another drowned when his boat capsized.

The ship's captain was dismissed and replaced with captain Moore.
The following season's journey to China was relatively uneventful, only involving the loss of the mizzen topgallant mast in a collision.
Moore was moved to command "Cutty sark" and replaced with Sam Bissett, who had been mate on the maiden voyage.
Carrying coal from Sydney to Shanghai she was caught in a typhoon, which caused the ship to heel over so much that the main and mizzen masts had to be cut away  once more to right her.
The cargo had shifted and had to be moved before the ship could be properly righted, but she limped on to Shanghai where new masts were fitted and she proceeded to Iloio and loaded a cargo for  Boston.
In the China sea the ship hit an uncharted reef and stuck fast, despite throwing the cargo overboard.
the ship was abandoned and the crew taken off by  "Albyn's isle", which had come to their assistance.
A squall sprang up, which now blew the ship clear of the reef and after  a chase of some hours the crew managed to reboard the ship and take control of their vessel again.
A slow journey to Boston followed.
For the fourth season she was commanded by captain White.

The "Blue Hill Meteorological Observatory", also known as "Great Blue Hill Weather Observatory", "Blue Hill Weather Observatory", or simply the "Blue Hill Observatory", in Milton, Massachusetts is the foremost structure associated with the history of weather observations in the United States.
Located atop Great Blue Hill at the junction of Interstate 20px and Route20px about 10 miles (16 km) south of Boston, Massachusetts, it is home to the oldest continuous weather record in North America, and was the location of the earliest kite soundings of the atmosphere in North America in the 1890s, as well as the development of the radiosonde in the 1930s.

The British bomber crews had intended to bomb the Haagse Bos where the Germans had installed V-2 launching facilities that had been used to attack English cities.
But the pilots were issued with the wrong coordinates so the meteorological instruments of the bombers had been set incorrectly, and fog and clouds obscured their vision.
The bombs were instead dropped on the Bezuidenhout residential neighbourhood.
On the morning of 3 March, 56 medium and light bombers of the B-25 Mitchell and Boston types from No. 137 and No. 139 Wings of the Second Tactical Air Force took off from the airfields Melsbroek near Brussels and Vitry in Northern France.
Between 8 and 9 o'clock in the morning the bombers dropped 67 tonnes of brisant bombs on the Bezuidenhout, wreaking widespread destruction.

On January 15, 1919, in the North End neighborhood, a large molasses storage tank burst, and a wave of molasses rushed through the streets at an estimated , killing 21 and injuring 150.
The event has entered local folklore, known as The Boston Molasses Disaster.

Summers are typically warm, rainy, and humid, while winters are cold, windy, and snowy.
Spring and fall are usually mild, but conditions are widely varied, depending on wind direction and jet stream positioning.
Prevailing wind patterns that blow offshore affect Boston, minimizing the influence of the Atlantic Ocean.

Boston's coastal location on the North Atlantic, although it moderates temperatures, also makes the city very prone to Nor'easter weather systems that can produce much snow and rain.
The city averages  of precipitation a year, with  of snowfall a year.
Snowfall increases dramatically as one goes inland away from the city (especially north and west of the city)—away from the warming influence of the ocean.
Most snowfall occurs from December through March.
There is usually little or no snow in April and November, and snow is rare in May and October.

Fog is somewhat common, particularly in spring and early summer, and the occasional tropical storm or hurricane can threaten the region, especially in early autumn.
Due to its situation along the North Atlantic, the city is often subjected to sea breezes, especially in the late spring, when water temperatures are still quite cold and temperatures at the coast can be more than  colder than a few miles inland, sometimes dropping by that amount near midday.
From May to September, the city experiences thunderstorms that are occasionally severe; large hail, damaging winds and heavy downpours accompany such severe events.
Although downtown Boston has never been struck by a violent tornado, the city itself has seen its fair share of tornado warnings, but damaging storms are more common to areas north, west, and northwest of the city.

In 2010, Boston Duck Tours was asked to help transport flood victims in Wayland, MA.
Torrential rains had left Pelham Island area of Wayland isolated and the Ducks were brought in to ferry people in and out of their neighborhood until the waters receded.

The second "Great Fire" of Boston began on November 9, 1872.
The fire destroyed 776 buildings, killed 13 people, and caused $75,000,000 in property damage.
The fire required mutual aid companies from as far away as New Haven, Connecticut and Manchester, New Hampshire.

On January 11, 2009, only two days after the fatal accident, another apparatus malfunction occurred.
Ladder 15 was en route to Boston Fire Headquarters to have maintenance work done when the turbo fuel injector malfunctioned, flooding the engine thus launching the truck into a parked vehicle.
That day Ladder 15 was using a nineteen year old reserve apparatus out of the Boylston Street fire station.
It's 2004 frontline piece was out for maintenance.

On May 22, 1964, the Bellflower Street Conflagration occurred and ultimately destroyed or damaged 35 multi-family dwellings.
This conflagration would greatly tax the resources of the Boston Fire Department and the Greater Boston mutual-aid network before being brought under control.
Although many firefighters and citizens were injured, no fatalities were recorded.

Questions have been raised about the safety of the apparatus on the Boston Fire Department.
On January 9, 2009, Lieutenant Kevin Kelley, 52, was killed and 3 other firefighters were seriously injured when the apparatus they were riding on, Ladder 26, struck a building while returning to the station from a medical call.
A braking malfunction has been cited as the culprit of the fatal accident.
Ladder 26, accompanied by Engine 37, was stationed out of the Huntington Avenue fire station which has been said to be the busiest in Boston.

The "Boston Fire Department" ("BFD") provides fire protection services for Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
In addition to fire protection, the BFD also provides emergency medical services at the BLS level and respond to a variety of emergencies such as, but not limited to, motor vehicle accidents, hazardous material spills, electrical hazards, floods, and construction accidents.
The department serves approximately 617,000 people in a  area of the city proper and additional mutual aid to 32 surrounding communities of the Greater Boston Metro Area including Logan International Airport.
Headquarters is located at 115 Southampton Street, Roxbury.
The Training Academy is located on Moon Island in Boston Harbor.
The Boston Fire Department responds to approximately 72,000 emergency calls annually.

At 2:35 PM on Saturday, June 17, 1972, an alarm from Box 1571 was received at Boston Fire Alarm for the Hotel Vendome on Commonwealth Avenue at Dartmouth Street in the Back Bay.
It took nearly three hours to stop the 4-alarm blaze.
During overhauling operations the southeast section of the building unexpectedly collapsed killing 9 Boston firefighters: Lieutenant Thomas J. Carroll (Engine 32), Lieutenant John E. Hanbury (Ladder 13), Firefighter Richard B. Magee (Engine 33), Firefighter Joseph F. Boucher (Engine 22), Firefighter Paul J. Murphy (Engine 32), Firefighter John E. Jameson (Engine 22), Firefighter Charles E. Dolan (Ladder 13), Firefighter Joseph P. Saniuk (Ladder 13) and Firefighter Thomas W. Beckwith (Engine 32); and injuring 8 more.

The famous Boston fire of 1872 led to the appointment of a board of fire commissioners.
The Boston Fire Department also provided assistance in the Great Chelsea Fire of 1908 and the Great Salem Fire of 1914.

A large fire occurred at 133-139 Federal Street on May 2, 1858.
The building was constructed of granite and wood, and occupied by an axe manufacturer and a bindery.
Two Boston Firefighters were killed as a result of the fire, when a wall collapsed onto the roof of a nearby building on which they were performing their duties.
The deceased firefighters were the first two persons interred at the Fireman's Lot at Forest Hills Cemetery.

Both incidents raised questions about the safety of the fire department's apparatus.
The Firefighters Union called upon the Massachusetts State Police Vehicle Inspection Unit to inspect all fire apparatus at the Boston Fire Department.

This fire was the worst tragedy in the history of the Boston Fire Department and one of the most deadly fires in the history of U.S. firefighting.

On the evening of August 29, 2007, firefighters responded to a report of a fire in the Tai-Ho Chinese restaurant in the West Roxbury neighborhood of Boston.
It was reported that smoke was observed on arrival, and a second alarm was promptly transmitted out of concern for the adjoining businesses.

In 1856, the height of the tower was raised to  and it was listed as a second-order station.
On November 2, 1861, the square rigger "Maritana", 991 tons, which had sailed from Liverpool 38 days earlier, with Captain Williams, ran into heavy seas in Massachusetts Bay and approached Boston in a blinding snow, driven by a howling southeaster.
At 1 o’clock in the morning of November 3, she sighted Boston Light and headed for it, but crashed on Shag Rocks soon after, with passengers and crew ordered into the weather chains after the crew had cut the masts away.
The ship broke in two and Captain Williams was crushed to death, but seven persons floated to Shag Rocks atop the pilot house, while five others swam to the ledge, as fragments of the wreckage started coming ashore on both sides of Little Brewster Island.
A dory from the pilot boat rescued the survivors from the rocks.
When the "Fanny Pike" went ashore on Shag Rocks in 1882, Keeper Thomas Bates rowed out and took the crew safely off the ledge.

The "Boston Massacre", called the "Incident on King Street" by the British, was an incident on March 5, 1770, in which British Army soldiers killed five civilian men and injured six others.
British troops had been stationed in Boston, capital of the Province of Massachusetts Bay, since 1768 in order to protect and support crown-appointed colonial officials  attempting to enforce unpopular Parliamentary legislation.
Amid ongoing tense relations between the population and the soldiers, a mob formed around a British sentry, who was subjected to verbal abuse and harassment.
He was eventually supported by eight additional soldiers, who were subjected to verbal threats and thrown objects.
They fired into the crowd, without orders, instantly killing three people and wounding others.
Two more people died later of wounds sustained in the incident.

First to the scene were 116 cadets under the direction of Lieutenant Commander H. J. Copeland from USS "Nantucket", a training ship of the Massachusetts Nautical School (which is now the Massachusetts Maritime Academy), that was docked nearby at the playground pier.
They ran several blocks toward the accident.
They worked to keep the curious from getting in the way of the rescuers while others entered into the knee-deep sticky mess to pull out the survivors.
Soon the Boston Police, Red Cross, Army and other Navy personnel arrived.
Some nurses from the Red Cross dived into the molasses, while others tended to the wounded, keeping them warm as well as keeping the exhausted workers fed.
Many of these people worked through the night.
The injured were so numerous that doctors and surgeons set up a makeshift hospital in a nearby building.
Rescuers found it difficult to make their way through the syrup to help the victims.
It took four days before they stopped searching for victims; many dead were so glazed over in molasses, they were hard to recognize.

"The Boston Globe" reported that people "were picked up by a rush of air and hurled many feet."
Others had debris hurled at them from the rush of sweet-smelling air.
A truck was picked up and hurled into Boston Harbor.
Approximately 150 were injured; 21 people and several horses were killed — some were crushed and drowned by the molasses.
The wounded included people, horses, and dogs; coughing fits became one of the most common ailments after the initial blast.

The collapse unleashed an immense wave of molasses between 8 and 15 ft (2.5 and 4.5 m) high, moving at 35 mph (56 km/h), and exerting a pressure of 2 ton/ft² (200 kPa).
The molasses wave was of sufficient force to damage the girders of the adjacent Boston Elevated Railway's Atlantic Avenue structure and tip a railroad car momentarily off the tracks.
Nearby, buildings were swept off their foundations and crushed.
Several blocks were flooded to a depth of .
As described by author Stephen Puleo:

The "Boston Molasses Disaster", also known as the "Great Molasses Flood" and the "Great Boston Molasses Tragedy", occurred on January 15, 1919, in the North End neighborhood of Boston, Massachusetts in the United States.
A large molasses storage tank burst, and a wave of molasses rushed through the streets at an estimated 35 mph (56 km/h), killing 21 and injuring 150.
The event has entered local folklore, and residents claim that on hot summer days, the area still smells of molasses.

The Boston Neck was originally about  wide at normal high tide.
The first wave of settlers built a wooden town gate and earthen wall on the neck in about 1631 to prevent attacks from Indians and to keep out unwanted animals and people.
The gate was constantly guarded and usually locked during certain times during the evening.
No residents could enter or leave during that period.
There was a wooden gallows just outside the town gate.
Burglars and pickpockets were commonly executed in those days, as well as murderers.

Violence peaked the next evening, the night of September 10–11.
Businesses were better prepared.
Some had boarded up and others stayed open all night with armed guards visible to discourage thieves taking advantage of the strike.
Gamblers played dice in open view, and women had their handbags snatched.
But the Guard proved inexperienced at handling crowds and they were quick to assert control without regard for loss of life.
Gunfire in South Boston left two dead and others wounded.
Scollay Square, a center of amusement halls and theaters, was reportedly the scene of a riot where one died.
Whether the crowds were threatening property or making trouble because they were in sympathy with the strikers is unknown.
The death total ultimately reached nine.

Although pay was the primary grievance of the Boston police, there were many other problems.
Beyond the pay scale there was the matter of hours, which had not changed in over half a century.
Patrolmen worked a 7-day week, with one day off every 15 days.
Patrolmen who worked the day shift put in 73 hours a week and "night men" worked 83 hours a week, while "wagon men" worked 98 hours.
After a day off, the men were required to serve a "house day" which meant they were on call at the station from 8:00am until 6:00pm performing various tasks such as recording duty, wagon runs and attending to the "signal desk."
After a three-hour break, they reported back to the station house at 9:00pm where they slept for three hours until 12:00am at which time the bell rang for roll call and they "went out on the street" until 8:00am.
After that, they could go home, but had to be back at 6:00pm for what they called an "evening on the floor" which meant performing the same type of duties such as taking care of prisoners, wagon trips or "whatever turned up."
At 9:00pm the patrolman went back to bed for three hours.

On December 6, 1917 at 9:00 AM, the Halifax Explosion severely destroyed much of the city.
Boston authorities learned of the disaster via telegraph, and quickly organized and dispatched a relief train around 10:00 PM that night, to assist survivors.
A blizzard following the explosion delayed the train, which finally arrived in the early morning on December 8, and immediately began distributing food, water, and medical supplies.
Numerous personnel on the train were able to relieve the Nova Scotia medical staff, most of whom had worked without rest since the explosion occurred.

Town meeting authorized a new light, which was completed in 1759, which lasted until 1774.
From the March 12, 1774, issue of The Massachusetts Gazette and the Boston PostBoy and Advertiser, "We hear from Nantucket that on Wednesday the 9th of March Instant (1774) at about 8 o’clock in the Morning, they had a most violent Gust of Wind that perhaps was ever known there, but it lasted only about a Minute.
It seemed to come in a narrow Vein, and in its progress blew down.
and totally destroyed the Light-House on that Island, besides several Shops, Barns, etc. Had the Gust continued fifteen Minutes it is thought it would not have left more than half the Buildings standing, in the Course that it passed.
But we don’t hear of any Persons receiving much hurt, nor much Damage done, except the loss of the Light-House which in every respect is considerable."

Bridgeport Station was also close to the scene of two of Connecticut's worst train accidents.
The first occurred on July 11, 1911 about a mile south of the station, near where Fairfield Avenue (CT 130) passes underneath and I-95 currently passes overhead.
Fourteen people were killed and 40 injured; excessive speed through a crossover was the cause.
The second occurred on July 14, 1955 due to excessive speed on a sharp curve approaching the station; one person was killed and 58 were injured.
Both accidents involved the same train, the northbound "Federal Express" overnight train from Washington, D.C. to Boston.

The "Broad Street Riot" occurred in Boston, Massachusetts, U.S., on June 11, 1837.
The riot began when a company of Yankee firefighters met with an Irish funeral procession on Broad Street.
Fire Engine Company 20 was returning from a fire in Roxbury.
Many of the firefighters went to a saloon nearby.
Afterwards, while traveling back to the firestation, George Fay either insulted or shoved members of a passing Irish funeral procession.
The Irish and firemen began to fight, but under the orders of W.W. Miller, the firemen ran to the station.
Miller sounded the emergency alarm, calling all of the fire engines in Boston.
Although many of the Irish had left the scene, the fire companies continued to come as called.
As the fight continued, local Yankees and Irishmen joined the row.
Eventually 1000 people were included in the melee, though no one was killed.
Several houses were broken into and vandalized, and the rioters launched rocks and other missiles at each other.
The fight was broken up when Mayor Samuel A. Eliot commanded 10 companies from the military to patrol the neighborhoods surrounding Broad Street.

Construction on the Phalanstery was progressing well until the evening of March 3, 1846, when it was discovered that the Phalanstery had caught fire.
Within two hours, the structure had completely burned down; firefighters from Boston arrived too late.
The fire was likely caused by a defective chimney.
One participant noted, "Ere long the flames were chasing one another in a mad riot over the structure; running across long corridors and up and down the supporting columns of wood, until the huge edifice was a mass of firework".
The financial blow from the loss of the uninsured building was $7,000 and it marked the beginning of the end of Brook Farm.

Buck Jones was one of the 492 victims of the 1942 Cocoanut Grove fire in Boston, Massachusetts, dying two days after the November 28 blaze.
For years, legend held that Jones's fatal injuries were the result of his going back into the burning building to save victims, but it is now known that he was trapped in the fire.
Monogram Pictures producer Scott R. Dunlap (1892–1970), who was hosting a party being held in Jones's honor, was seriously hurt but survived.

In 1919, a 15-meter high molasses tank in Boston burst, killing 21 and injuring 150.
A few other tanks have failed in a similar manner in the United States, but they have usually resulted in relatively few deaths.
However, bunding's main purpose in unoccupied areas is to prevent environmental damage.
Bund wall failures have occurred in the UK, such as at Warrington, Cheshire  in 1994.
A polypropylene tank holding about 30 tonnes of 40% aqueous caustic soda sprang a leak about halfway down the main wall.
The corrosive fluid jetted out over the bund wall, causing great damage to the surrounding factory and adjacent premises.
The bunding at Buncefield also failed to contain  petrol and other fluids.

At Boston, Captain James Lawrence took command of "Chesapeake" on 20 May 1813, and on 1 June, put to sea to meet the waiting HMS "Shannon", the frigate whose written challenge had just missed "Chesapeake"s sailing.
During six minutes of firing, the vessels fired two full broadsides; 362 shots struck "Chesapeake", while 258 struck "Shannon".
"Chesapeake" suffered early in the exchange of broadsides, having her wheel shot away, costing her her maneuverability.
Lawrence himself was mortally wounded and was carried below.
The crew struggled to carry out their captain's last order, "Don't give up the ship!", but the British boarding party overwhelmed them.
The battle lasted thirteen minutes, killing or wounding 252 men.
"Shannon"s Captain Philip Broke was severely injured in fighting on the forecastle.
"Chesapeake" and her crew were taken to Halifax, Nova Scotia where the sailors were imprisoned; the ship was repaired and taken into service by the Royal Navy.
She was sold at Portsmouth, England in 1820 and broken up.
Surviving timbers were used to build the nearby Chesapeake Mill in Wickham and can be seen and visited to this day.

Many of his ascents were made alone, as when he went up from Boston in June 1846, and again in July when he made a night ascent from Vauxhall.
During his career he had many dangerous experiences.
In 1822, when ascending from Cheltenham, accompanied by Mr. Griffiths, some malicious person partly severed the ropes which attached the car to the balloon, so that in starting the car broke away from the balloon, and its occupants had to take refuge on the hoop of the balloon, in which position they had a perilous journey and a most dangerous descent, when they were both injured.
Mr. Green received a serious contusion on the left side of the chest, and Mr. Griffith a severe injury of the spine.
This is the only case on record of such a balloon voyage.
In 1827 Green made his 69th ascent, from Newbury in Berkshire, accompanied by H. Simmons of Reading, a deaf and dumb gentleman, when a violent thunderstorm threatened the safety of the balloon.
On 17 August 1841, on going up from Cremorne with Mr. Macdonnell, a jerk of the grappling-iron upset the car and went near to throwing out the aeronaut and his companion.
Green was the first to demonstrate, in 1821, that coal-gas was applicable to the inflation of balloons.
Before his time pure hydrogen gas was used, a substance very expensive, the generation of which was so slow that two days were required to fill a large balloon, and then the gas was excessively volatile.
He was also the inventor of ‘the guide-rope,’ a rope trailing from the car, which could be lowered or raised by means of a windlass and used to regulate the ascent and descent of the balloon.
After living in retirement for many years he died suddenly of heart disease at his residence, Ariel Villa, 51 Tufnell Park, Holloway, London, 26 March 1870.

On May 14, 2008, at around 1:30am, a Boston College bound train derailed just before the Chesnut Hill Avenue stop.
It struck a nearby utility pole which brought down the overhead wires, causing the trolley to catch fire.
Train service was replaced by buses well into the next afternoon.
No injuries were reported, but the trolley suffered significant damage.

In 1997, a re-investigation of Boston's Cocoanut Grove nightclub fire in 1942 cited a chloromethane leak from a refrigerator as a major cause of that disaster.

