The "1783 New Jersey earthquake" occurred on November 30, 1783 in the U.S. state of New Jersey.
Measuring 5.3 on the Richter scale, it stands as the most powerful earthquake to occur in the state.
Shaking was felt from New Hampshire to Pennsylvania.
A brief foreshock occurred at 02:00 UTC on November 30 and an aftershock five hours later were reported only in New York and in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
The earthquake caused intensity VII damage on the Mercalli scale.

The "1815 Philadelphia train accident" occurred on 31 July 1815, in Philadelphia, County Durham, England, when an early experimental railway locomotive, Brunton's Mechanical Traveller, suffered a boiler explosion.
This engine, also known as the Steam Horse, ran on four wheels but was pushed by mechanical feet.
This was both the first recorded boiler explosion and the first railway accident causing major loss of life, as 16 people were killed [some sources state 13].
The accident is not included in many texts because it was on an industrial waggonway or plateway, rather than a public railway.
Nevertheless, it predated William Huskisson's death at Edge Hill by 15 years, and the death toll was not exceeded by any railway accident until 1842 worldwide (see Versailles train crash), and 1861 in the UK (Clayton Tunnel).
It also killed more people than any other railway boiler explosion of all time.
Most boiler explosions caused severe mechanical damage but often only the locomotive crew suffered physically; however, Brunton's locomotive was surrounded at the time by a crowd of curious sightseers, who formed the majority of the victims.
The first high-pressure steam locomotive, Trevithick's Penydarren engine, had only appeared 11 years earlier in 1804, and engineering understanding of the forces and safety risks involved was still primitive.

Upon making landfall on Cape May, New Jersey, the cyclone produced a 5 foot (1.5 m) storm surge on the Delaware Bay side of the city.
Lasting for several hours, the hurricane force winds were described as "[blowing] with great violence", causing widespread devastation across the region.
In Little Egg Harbor, its passage caused damage to the port.
Strong winds reached as far inland as Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where winds of over 40 mph (60 km/h) downed trees and chimneys; in the city, precipitation accrued to 3.92 inches (99.6 mm).
Further to the north, the hurricane destroyed a windmill at Bergen Point, New Jersey.
Though the hurricane struck at low tide, it produced a storm surge of over 29 feet (9 m) along several portions of the New Jersey coastline, causing significant overwash.

A "refinery owned by Gulf Oil Corporation in Philadelphia", located at Girard Point on the Schuylkill River in South Philadelphia, caught fire on August 17, 1975.
This incident resulted in the death of eight firefighters of the Philadelphia Fire Department, injuries to 14 other firefighters, and the loss of Philadelphia fire apparatus.

As the fire swept rapidly eastward along 5th Street, Philadelphia’s foam pumpers, Engines 160 and 133, and the Gulf Refinery foam pumper were rapidly destroyed in the fire’s advance.
At 5th Street, where Engines 16 and 40 had been assigned to improve drainage, their pieces were also destroyed in the fire’s path, although their pump operators were able to escape.
Upon reaching 5th Street, the fire traveled two city blocks north along 5th Street, threatening four additional storage tanks and the  Penrose Avenue Bridge.

It was now 4:41 p.m. and a firestorm was now developing as the fire quickly spread eastward along Avenue “Y” towards 5th Street.
Viewing the unfolding horror before him, Commissioner Rizzo ordered two more alarms, five additional rescue squads, and the recall of all companies which had previously been released from the firegrounds throughout the day.
On these orders, the fire alarm room transmitted the seventh and eighth alarms.
As the fire had been placed under control nearly eight hours earlier, firefighters in stations across the city knew that the unthinkable had occurred as these additional alarms were struck.
At 4:46 p.m., Commissioner Rizzo ordered the ninth alarm and notification of Philadelphia Managing Director Hillel Levinson as a major disaster was now unfolding at the Gulf Refinery.

At 6:04 a.m., upon receiving the report of fire from the Gulf Refinery, the Philadelphia Fire Department transmitted the refinery’s fire alarm box: Box 5988, Penrose and Lanier Avenues.
Upon leaving their station, Engine 60 (the assigned first-due engine company) could see fire and smoke conditions at a distance, and before arriving at the refinery, Engine 60 ordered the second alarm at 6:09 a.m.

It occurred on July 27, 1976 at the Bellevue Stratford Hotel in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where members of the American Legion, a United States military veterans association, had gathered for the American Bicentennial.
Within two days of the event’s start, veterans began falling ill with a then-unidentified pneumonia.
They were tachypneic and complained of chest pain.
As many as 221 people were given medical treatment, and 34 deaths occurred.
At the time, the U.S. was debating the risk of a possible swine flu epidemic, and this incident prompted the passage of a national swine flu vaccination program.
That cause was ruled out, and research continued for months, with various theories discussed in scientific and mass media that ranged from toxic chemicals to terrorism (domestic or foreign) aimed at the veterans.

Other memorials to the victims of the Beirut barracks bombing have been erected in various locations within the United States, including one at Penn's Landing in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and one in Florida.
Additionally, a Lebanese cedar has been planted in Arlington National Cemetery near the graves of some of the victims of the attack, in their memory.
A plaque in the ground in front of the tree, dedicated in a ceremony on the first anniversary of the attack, reads: "Let peace take root: This cedar of Lebanon tree grows in living memory of the Americans killed in the Beirut terrorist attack and all victims of terrorism around the world."
The National Museum of the Marine Corps, in Quantico, Virginia, unveiled an exhibit in 2008 in memory of the attack and its victims.

The "1999 Athens earthquake", registering a moment magnitude of 6.0, occurred on September 7, 1999, at 2:56:50 pm local time and lasted approximately 15 seconds in Ano Liosia.
The tremor was epicentered approximately 17 km to the northwest of the city center, in a sparsely populated area between the working-class town of Acharnes and the Mount Parnitha National Park.
This proximity to the Athens Metropolitan Area resulted in widespread structural damage, mainly to the nearby towns of Ano Liossia, Acharnes, Fyli and Thrakomakedones as well as to the northern Athenian suburbs of Kifissia, Metamorfosi, Kamatero and Nea Philadelphia.
More than 100 buildings (including three major factories) across those areas collapsed trapping scores of victims under their rubble while dozens more were severely damaged.
Overall, 143 people lost their lives and more than 2,000 were treated for injuries in what eventually became Greece's deadliest natural disaster in almost half a century.
This event took Greek seismologists by surprise as it came from a previously unknown fault, originating in an area that was for a long time considered of a particularly low seismicity.
The highest recorded peak ground acceleration was 0.3g, at 15 km from the epicentre, with attenuation predicting 0.6g acceleration at the centre.

Although many heat related deaths go unreported, by July 19, the Associated Press reported that the soaring heat was blamed for 12 deaths from Oklahoma City to the Philadelphia area.
Reports by early morning July 20 raised the death toll to at least 16 in seven states.

As of July 22, 2009, the New Jersey Government has confirmed 936 cases of swine flu and 480 probable cases, most of them within a range of 30 minutes of New York or Philadelphia.
More swine flu cases are being reported daily, which has caused a widespread in the state.
Counties currently confirmed with swine flu: Atlantic (20), Bergen (63), Burlington (64), Camden (35), Cape May (3), Cumberland (17), Essex (105), Gloucester (12), Hudson (85), Hunterdon(17), Mercer (47), Middlesex (115), Monmouth (60), Morris (45), Ocean (48), Passaic (63), Salem (3), Somerset (37), Sussex (13), Union (62), Warren (22), which indicates that currently 21 counties have confirmed cases of swine flu.

"Pennsylvania:" Trembling was felt in buildings in Philadelphia and Pittsburgh and across the state.
In Center City Philadelphia, a window shattered on a lower floor at the Independence Blue Cross building, and the company sent its 3,000 employees home for the day.
Other office buildings in Center City Philadelphia were also evacuated following the earthquake.
Workers at the PPL Corporation in Allentown evacuated the building.
However, the Three Mile Island nuclear plant south of Harrisburg continued to operate during the earthquake.
The Bucks County Courthouse in Doylestown was evacuated following the earthquake.
In Philadelphia, SEPTA Regional Rail trains were restricted to a speed of  while tracks were inspected for damage, and PATCO Speedline trains were briefly suspended, with no damage reported.
The Pennsylvania Department of Transportation inspected bridges across the state for damage.
The Delaware River Port Authority reported no damage to its four bridges across the Delaware River.

Historical records list up to fifteen towns and cities that were destroyed or damaged by the earthquake: Sardis, Magnesia, Temnos, Philadelphia, Aegae, Apollonis, Mostene, Hyrkanis, Hierapolis, Myrina, Cyme, Tmolus, Pergamon, Ephesus and Kibyra.
Of these, Pergamon, Ephesus and Kibyra are not mentioned by Tacitus.
The record of damage at both Ephesus and Kibyra may refer instead to an earthquake in AD 23.
In Pergamon the Heroon of Diodoros Pasparos was remodelled after the earthquake.

After the police got inside the schoolhouse, all of the wounded girls were taken to hospitals.
Two had died at the school house, one was pronounced dead on arrival at Lancaster General Hospital, and two sisters survived until the early hours of October 3 when they were taken off of life support.
All of the victims that survived the immediate attack were brought to Lancaster General Hospital, stabilized, and then transferred to hospitals with pediatric trauma care.
Three of the children were admitted to Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, four to Children's Hospital of Philadelphia and one to Christiana Hospital in Newark, Delaware, reported a state police spokesman.
One of the surviving children was initially transported to The Reading Hospital and Medical Center via helicopter, and then transported to the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia after being stabilized.

Several factions within the Philadelphia family began conspiring to betray the aging Bruno.
On March 21, 1980, the 69 year-old Bruno was killed by a shotgun blast in the back of the head as he sat in his car.
It is believed that the killing was ordered by Antonio Caponigro (aka Tony Bananas), Bruno's consigliere.
A few weeks later, Caponigro's body was found stuffed in a body bag in the trunk of a car in New York City.
About $300 in bills were jammed in his mouth and anus (to be interpreted as signs of greed).
The Commission had reportedly ordered Caponigro's murder because he assassinated Bruno without their sanction.
Other Philadelphia family members involved in Bruno's murder were tortured and killed.

Scripps daughters noticed that Douglas started drinking more heavily  and became erratically violent towards their mother, openly hitting her in public on at least one occasion.
Both Alex and Annie advised their mother to file for divorce and get an order of eviction to have him removed from their home.
In 1991, Scripps took Tori and moved in with Alex.
She had changed her will and moved back in for fear that Douglas would take Tori and flee.
During the holidays, Scripps discovered Douglas had removed files such as Tori's birth certificate and other records from the house.
Scripps and her two eldest daughters began documenting and keeping records of the assaults, and went on December 6, 1993 to obtain an eviction notice; however, the judge refused to order his eviction.
Scripps told a friend that she began sleeping with a hammer under her bed because Douglas new method of abuse is to wake her up in the middle of the night to scare and berate her.
On December 31, 1993 Scripps, 47 years old, who was asleep across the hall from her 3 year old daughter Tori, was bludgeoned with a hammer by her husband of 5 years Scott Douglas, 38 years old.
Scripps daughter Anne had called the police on January 1, 1994 at 3:30 am, because she was unable to get into contact with her mother or Douglas, the police arrived and knocked down the locked door, and found Scripps unconscious in bed, her sheets soaked in blood, her terrier puppy next to her trying to comfort her.
Across the hall Tori, then 3 years old had witnessed the crime that left her mother's skull irreparably broken.
Tori Douglas was reported as saying, "Daddy gave Mommy boo-boos.
Daddy gave Mommy many boo-boos.
Why is Mommy wearing warpaint?"
Immediately the police began searching for Scott Douglas, in a matter of hours Douglas' 1982 BMW was found on the Tappan Zee Bridge with the bloody hammer inside, the authorities dragged the Hudson River for him, but still operated under the assumption he was still alive.
As Scripps lay in the  hospital, her first husband, Anthony Morrell, who was in the terminal stages of cirrhosis of the liver and had been hospitalized near Philadelphia, left his hospital bed to be at her side.
A week after the attack —two days after the authorities stopped dragging the Hudson for Douglas's body— Scripps was taken off life support and died without regaining consciousness.
In her death, she was able to give her liver, which was transplanted into her ex husband, Anthony Morrell, saving his life.
"Her daughters acted on what they knew would be their mother's wishes," said family attorney, "Anne left this world the way she lived in it-- loving and giving."

Her throat was cut from left to right, and she had been disembowelled, with her intestines thrown out of her abdomen over each of her shoulders.
The morgue examination revealed that part of her uterus was missing.
Chapman's protruding tongue and swollen face led Dr Phillips to think that she may have been asphyxiated with the handkerchief around her neck before her throat was cut.
As there was no blood trail leading to the yard, he was certain that she was killed where she was found.
He concluded that she suffered from a long-standing lung disease, that the victim was sober at the time of death, and had not consumed alcoholic beverages for at least some hours before it.
Phillips was of the opinion that the murderer must have possessed anatomical knowledge to have sliced out the reproductive organs in a single movement with a blade about 6–8 inches (15–20 cm) long.
However, the idea that the murderer possessed surgical skill was dismissed by other experts.
As her body was not examined extensively at the scene, it has also been suggested that the organ was removed by mortuary staff, who took advantage of bodies that had already been opened to extract organs that they could then sell as surgical specimens.
In his summing up, Coroner Baxter raised the possibility that Chapman was murdered deliberately to obtain the uterus, on the basis that an American had made inquiries at a London medical school for the purchase of such organs.
"The Lancet" rejected Baxter's suggestion scathingly, pointed out "certain improbabilities and absurdities", and said it was "a grave error of judgement".
The "British Medical Journal" was similarly dismissive, and reported that the physician who requested the samples was a highly reputable doctor, unnamed, who had left the country 18 months before the murder.
Baxter dropped the theory and never referred to it again.
The "Chicago Tribune" claimed the American doctor was from Philadelphia, and author Philip Sugden later speculated that the man in question was the notorious Francis Tumblety.

Severely injured and losing consciousness, Kramish declined the assistance of a priest who was offering to administer Last Rites.
While recuperating from the severe burns from the incident at a Philadelphia naval hospital, his mother came to visit him by train from Denver, carrying with her a jar of chicken soup on the three-day trip, which she fed him upon her arrival at the hospital, which Kramish would credit for his unexpected recovery.
Despite wartime censorship of any details of the incident and secret classification after the war ended, Kramish lobbied the government to memorialize the victims of the accident.

Because it was a great impediment to Confederate commerce and warfare, there was no choice but to try to lift the Union blockade in any way possible.
CSS "David" was one of the South's secret weapons.
Similar to the submarine "H.L. Hunley", the boat was designed to destroy enemy ships by stealthily sneaking up to their sides and placing an explosive on their hulls.
The "David" was only fifty feet long with a beam of six feet and a draft of five feet.
Her crew consisted of just four officers and men.
She was under the command of Lieutenant William T. Glassell during her three year career.
On the night of October 5, at about 8:00 am the torpedo boat headed out from the pier toward the fourteen gun ironclad USS "New Ironsides", which was considered the most formidable warship in the navy.
She had also survived a failed torpedo boat attack in August 1863.
An hour later the rebels were approaching the ironclad when lookouts spotted them fifty yards away, just before they attached the torpedo.
The Union commander Captain Stephen C. Rowan reported the following: ""At 9 p.m. discovered a very peculiar looking steamer which at first appeared like a boat standing toward our starboard beam from seaward; hailed her rapidly four times, and she making no reply, fired into her with musketry; she returned fire, dangerously wounding Ensign C.W.
Howard in charge of the deck the steamer struck us near No. 6 port, starboard side, exploding a large torpedo, shaking the vessel and throwing up an immense column of water, part of which fell on our decks.""
When the water fell back, some of it went down the "David"s smokestack and put out the fire in her engine.
The explosion ripped a large fissure in the ironclad's starboard quarter and her crew had to quickly repair the hole but the ship remained leaky.
Damage was also inflicted to the ship's armory bulkhead and some storerooms, but casualties were light.
There were two wounded, one of whom later died, and a third man who suffered from "confusions".
CSS "David" was heavily damaged, enough for her commander to order his men to abandon ship.
Ensign C. W. Cannon could not swim so he remained aboard and after the others left they tried to swim for nearby Morris Island under fire.
It was at this time Assistant Engineer J. H. Tomb decided to go back to the torpedo boat where he restarted the fire and sailed away.
The remaining two Confederates, including Lieutenant Glassel, surrendered to the men of "New Ironsides" after evacuating the "David".
"New Ironsides" was apparently not in threat of sinking and the damage proved to be mostly superficial.
She returned to blockade duty after taking a short time in Philadelphia to make repairs.
CSS "David" was repaired as well and she eventually made attacks on USS "Memphis" and USS "Wabash".
Several torpedo boats of the "David" class were captured at the end of the war.
The "David" may have been among them.

Penelope Detweiler was the only daughter of Richard Detweiler, the majority stockholder in Nesfoods.
She was involved with Anthony DeZito, "Tony the Zee," and was present when DeZito was murdered.
Her relationship with DeZito led to her addiction to heroin.
She was hospitalized in a private sanitarium in Nevada.
When she returned to Philadelphia, Detweiler had a brief relationship with Matt Payne.
She died of a heroin overdose in "The Murderers".

The Great Baltimore Fire in 1904 burned for thirty hours straight and decimated a major part of central Baltimore, including over 1,500 buildings.
Mutual aid companies from as far away as Washington D.C., Philadelphia and New York City were called in to assist.
The fire led to uniform national standards in fire fighting equipment and protocols.
As with other large fires of the time, it was a predecessor to the stringent fire codes of today.

In 1750 he published a proposal for an experiment to prove that lightning is electricity by flying a kite in a storm that appeared capable of becoming a lightning storm.
On May 10, 1752 Thomas-François Dalibard of France conducted Franklin's experiment using a -tall iron rod instead of a kite, and he extracted electrical sparks from a cloud.
On June 15 Franklin may possibly have conducted his famous kite experiment in Philadelphia, successfully extracting sparks from a cloud.
Franklin's experiment was not written up with credit until Joseph Priestley's 1767 "History and Present Status of Electricity"; the evidence shows that Franklin was insulated (not in a conducting path, where he would have been in danger of electrocution).
Others, such as Prof. Georg Wilhelm Richmann were indeed electrocuted during the months following Franklin's experiment.

Although her term was largely consumed by oversight of federally funded programs, upon assuming office as Deputy Director of the ONDCP, Madras became aware of a newly emerging threat, fentanyl overdose deaths in heroin addicts.
She rapidly organized a conference in Philadelphia with treatment providers, emergency responders, emergency room professionals, law enforcement officials, representatives from city governments, other healthcare professionals,  to create a coordinated response to eliminate this threat to life.
Within months and for a number of reasons, fentanyl overdose deaths declined rapidly.
Of over 170 media events and interviews during her term, she gave two interviews on Narcan distribution to heroin addicts and friends.
At that time, she strongly supported narcan rescue by trained healthcare personnel, but opposed distribution to heroin users and their friends, of overdose rescue kits of opiate-antidote naloxone (Narcan) in i.v. or nasal spray form.
Her opposition was based on discussions with NIDA and SAMHSA and a scientific literature survey by NIDA.
She voiced opposition to "take-home" narcan on the basis of inadequate scientific evidence to support this policy and on the basis of several publications of potential adverse outcomes.
"Madras says drug users aren't likely to be competent to deal with an overdose emergency".
This quote was based on a several studies and the views of EMT responders, e.g.
Seal et al., 2003, that indicated risks related to naloxone administration to opioid-dependent people, by untrained personnel.
Her opposition to "take-home" narcan arose from a number of factors cited in an National Public Radiointerview.
These included quoting Seal's detailed study of heroin – injectors in the San Franscisco Bay area,.
In this survey of 82 street-recruited IDU's who had experienced one or more heroin overdose events, 51% reported soliciting emergency assistance, 87% were in favor of participating in an overdose training program, "35% predicted they would feel comfortable using greater amounts of heroin if they had narcan in their possession, 62% would be less inclined to call 911 for an overdose, 30% would leave an overdose victim after naloxone resusitation," and 46% might not be able to dissuade the victim from using heroin again to alleviate withdrawal symptoms induced by naloxone.
Another article published by van Dorp, raised concerns that i) "the induction of an acute withdrawal syndrome (the occurrence of vomiting and aspiration is potentially life threatening)" – and that could lead to abandonment by a narcan provider/friend; ii) "the effect of naloxone may wear off prematurely when used for treatment of opioid-induced respiratory depression and require multiple doses and long-term vigilance".
"Risks warranting the cautious use of naloxone and adequate monitoring of the cardiorespiratory status of the overdose person after naloxone administration where indicated".
Based on the Seal study, she was concerned that Narcan kits may  encourage 35% of drug abusers to use greater amounts of heroin because they thought overdosing isn't as likely, again leading to unintended consequences.
Madras also felt that in the presence of healthcare professionals, the opportunity to provide detoxification and referral to treatment would be greater than in a "take-home" narcan provision program.
She was concerned that in a "take-home" narcan program, not all resuscitated heroin overdose events could be safely left alone.
This concern was based on an article by Etherington et al. (2000): "In the medical community, it is recommended that patients with heroin overdose be watched for 4 to 24 hours after naloxone.
In a recent study, overdose patients were formally assessed 1 hour after receiving naloxone for presumed opioid overdose.
Of 573 patients, 48% were discharged in less than 2 hours, 23% in 2–4 hours and 29% in >4 hours.
94 patients who were held in the emergency department (ED) or admitted required a critical intervention, including supplemental oxygen for hypoxia (74), repeat naloxone (52), antibiotics administered intravenously (IV) (14), assisted ventilations (13), fluid bolus for hypotension (12), charcoal for associated life-threatening overdose (6), IV inotropic agents (2), antiarrhythmics for sustained tachycardia >130 beats/min (1), and administration of bicarbonate for arterial [HCO3] <5 or venous CO2 <5 (1)".
This study concluded that emergency physicians can clinically identify patients at risk of deterioration after naloxone reversal of suspected opioid overdose.
She was concerned that in the "take-home program", additional emergency room measures needed for a significant number of people (e.g.
94/573), would not be available.
Finally, the majority of the scientific literature on take-home narcan (according to a NIDA survey requested by Dr. Madras) was based on pilot studies, feasibility studies, or letters to the editor, an inadequate body of research for developing public policy or advocating a major change in medical procedures that could potentially save or cost precious lives.

Smith's funeral was held in Philadelphia a little over a week later on October 4, 1937.
Her body was originally laid out at Upshur's funeral home.
As word of her death spread through Philadelphia's black community, the body had to be moved to the O.V. Catto Elks Lodge to accommodate the estimated 10,000 mourners who filed past her coffin on Sunday, October 3. Contemporary newspapers reported that her funeral was attended by about seven thousand people.
Far fewer mourners attended the burial at Mount Lawn Cemetery, in nearby Sharon Hill.
Gee thwarted all efforts to purchase a stone for his estranged wife, once or twice pocketing money raised for that purpose.

One of the Black Mafia's most brutal, inexplicable crimes included the Dubrow Furniture Store robbery.
On January 4, 1971, eight Black Mafia members robbed DuBrow's on South Street in Philadelphia.
They entered the store one by one posing as customers.
Once all were inside, they pulled guns on the twenty employees present and forced them to lie on the floor in the back of the store where they bound them with tape and electrical cord.
Thirteen employees were beaten while two others were shot.
A janitor who walked in on the robbery while doing his job was shot and killed.
One employee was doused with gasoline and set on fire.
After their vicious treatment of the employees, they looted the offices in the store and set more fires to destroy evidence of the robbery.
The eight criminals fled the scene as soon as the fire alarm went off, purposefully trampling on one of the victim's bodies as they left.
This crime was so brutal that W.E.B. Griffin wrote a novel based on it, "The Witness," and Philadelphia Police Commissioner Frank Rizzo was quoted as saying that the DuBrow crime was "the most vicious crime I have ever come across.

At 2:08 a.m.
(6:08 GMT), the first and largest of the explosions took place.
Fragments from the explosion traveled long distances, some lodging in the Statue of Liberty and some in the clock tower of "The Jersey Journal" building in Journal Square, over a mile away, stopping the clock at 2:12 a.m.
The explosion was the equivalent of an earthquake measuring between 5.0 and 5.5 on the Richter scale and was felt as far away as Philadelphia.
Windows broke as far as  away, including thousands in lower Manhattan.
Some window panes in Times Square were completely shattered.
The outer wall of Jersey City's City Hall was cracked and the Brooklyn Bridge was shaken.
People as far away as Maryland were awakened by what they thought was an earthquake.

Finally, Jack attempts to gather irrefutable proof of the assassination attempt, wiring Sally with a hidden microphone and sending her off to meet a purported media contact.
Shadowing her from a distance, he is alarmed to see that his supposed contact is Burke, not the reporter.
Sally is the last loose end for Burke to eliminate, and her death will be attributed to the "Strangler."
Immediately realizing that she is in danger, Jack attempts to warn her, but Sally and Burke slip out of range and into the Liberty Day parade.
Jack makes a mad dash across Philadelphia, attempting to head them off and rescue Sally.
He crashes his Jeep, though and is knocked out.
By the time Jack awakens, Burke has taken Sally to a rooftop where he attacks her.
Still listening in on his earpiece, Jack spots them.
He hears Sally screaming as he rushes to save her, but he is too late.
He arrives just after Burke has strangled her to death and is marking her body with the Strangler's signature bell pattern.
Jack takes Burke by surprise and tries to capture him, but Burke, laughing in his face, commits suicide.
Jack, devastated and on his knees, then takes Sally's lifeless body in his arms.

While visiting her family in Philadelphia on Christmas Eve 1969, Carol McCain was driving alone in snowy, icy conditions.
Approaching an intersection on an isolated country road, she skidded and collided with a telephone pole, was thrown from the car into the snow, and went into shock.
Some time later, she was found and taken to Bryn Mawr Hospital; she had two smashed legs, a broken pelvis, broken arm, and ruptured spleen.
She spent six months in the hospital, and over the course of the next two years had 23 operations, which rebuilt her legs with rods and pins, as well as extensive physical therapy.
She did not tell her husband about the accident in her letters to him, believing he already had enough to worry about, and the U.S. State Department told a surgeon who operated upon her not to mention anything to the press, lest it worsen the treatment for John McCain.
Businessman and POW advocate Ross Perot paid for her medical care and she remained grateful to him, later saying: "The military families are in Ross's heart and in his soul ...
There are millions of us who are extremely grateful to Ross Perot."
Years after John McCain found out about Perot's help, he said "we loved him for it."
She was interviewed on the "CBS Evening News" in 1970, and said that Christmas had no meaning for her without her husband present, but that she carried on with it for the sake of their children.

The snail was first discovered at Chittenango Falls in August 1905 by a field party from the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
In 1908, Henry Augustus Pilsbry reported the discovery, describing the snail as a subspecies of the widely distributed "Succinea ovalis".
Because of this, the Chittenango ovate amber snail is referred to in many publications as "Succinea ovalis chittenangoensis".

After the funeral Mass, Longet and Williams boarded the 21-car funeral train that took Senator Kennedy's body to Washington, D.C. and Arlington National Cemetery for burial.
Longet and Williams were with Senator Kennedy's body, Ethel Kennedy, Ted Kennedy, and other Kennedy family members in the end car of the train.
The front page of the 9 June 1968 edition of the "Washington Post" has a large photograph that depicts Ted Kennedy and Longet standing together on the rear platform of the funeral train as it passed through North Philadelphia.

Daryl Poynter is a successful but self-destructive Philadelphia real estate salesman who is addicted to cocaine.
He embezzles $92,000 of his company's money from an escrow account and then loses it all to his addiction and the stock market.
Waking up one morning next to a girl who suffered a heart attack from a cocaine overdose, he tries to cover up the drug use, but the police make it clear that they know what happened.
There is also the matter of the company's money.
Daryl tries to flee the country but all flights are held up due to bad weather.
His colleague Martin also refuses to put him up for a couple of weeks.
Daryl then learns of a drug rehabilitation program which lasts about a month and which guarantees anonymity.
He thus applies for it.
There, he meets Craig, a tough but supportive drug rehabilitation counselor.
With great difficulty, Craig helps Daryl to realize he is an addict and his life is complete chaos.
He says to him, "The best way to break old habits is to make new ones."

Judge Green suffered a cerebral hemorrhage and died of pneumonia in Philadelphia on May 31, 2007.
He was survived by his wife and daughter.

The "Coatesville, Pennsylvania arsons" refer to a spree of deliberately-set fires in 2008 and 2009 in the area of Coatesville, Pennsylvania, a small Philadelphia suburb.
There were 26 fires set in Coatesville in the year 2008 and, since January 1, 2009, there have been 18 reported cases of arson in the city and five more in the surrounding area.
The fires have caused more than $3 million in damage, left scores of people homeless and resulted in the death of one 83-year-old woman.
As of March 2009, six people have been arrested in connection with some of the fires.

On August 23, 1926, he was leading a formation of three army planes leaving the Sesquicentennial Exposition in Philadelphia heading toward Selfridge Field in Michigan when in heavy fog he hit a tree and crashed on Jacks Mountain near Bellefonte, Pennsylvania.
He was seriously injured, including two broken legs, and after waiting in vain for rescue he crawled two-and-a-half miles to a road where he was found by highway workers.
He was admitted to Bellefonte Hospital and then airlifted to Walter Reed Hospital in Washington where he was expected to recover, but he died on September 1, 1926 of spinal meningitis.

On May 30, 1933, Alexander twisted a knee in a game at Philadelphia.
He was given diathermy treatment ("electrically induced heat" used for muscle relaxation) in the clubhouse by Red Sox trainer, Doc Woods.
Alexander's leg suffered third degree burns during the treatment, and gangrene eventually set in. "It was a new method of treatment and not too much was known about it," Alexander said, years later.
"I noticed my leg felt awfully hot.
I ended up with third-degree burns and a gangrene infection and almost lost my leg.
I was finished in the Majors...
I couldn't run and I couldn't field and when I got hurt, that was the end."
Alexander attempted a comeback but injured his leg again in July 1933 and saw limited action for the rest of the season, mostly as a pinch hitter.
Alexander wound up hitting .281 in  and played his last Major League game was on September 23, 1933 against the New York Yankees.

• "The Philadelphia Experiment, Ape-Man Army, Zapped to Death"  -Premiere Date: Wednesday, August 31, 2011 at 10PM e/p • "I Have Einstein's Brain, Unidentified Flying Nazis, Killer Thoughts"  -Premiere Date: Wednesday, September 7, 2011 at 10PM e/p • "Sexy Secret Agent, Full Body Transplant, Honey I Nuked the Planet"  -Premiere Date: Wednesday, September 14, 2011 at 10PM e/p • "It's Alive!, Tripping with Uncle Sam, My Hand is Killing Me"  -Premiere Date: Wednesday, September 21, 2011 at 10PM e/p • "21 Grams, Missing Cosmonauts, Sound of Death"  -Premiere Date: Wednesday, September 28, 2011 at 10PM e/p • "Jekyll vs Hyde, How to Make a Zombie, Radio Waves of Death"  -Premiere Date: Wednesday, October 5, 2011 at 10PM e/p

Confusion reigns at the WGON television studio in Philadelphia by the pandemic's third week, where staff member Stephen and his girlfriend Francine are planning to steal the station's traffic helicopter to escape the zombies.
Meanwhile, Roger and his SWAT team raid an apartment building where the residents are ignoring the martial law of delivering the dead to National Guardsmen.
Some residents attack with rifles, and are slaughtered by the SWAT operatives and by their own reanimated dead.
During the raid, Roger meets Peter, part of another SWAT team, with whom he kills the zombies concealed below the building.
That night, Roger and Peter escape Philadelphia with Francine and Stephen via helecopter.
Following some close calls while stopping for fuel, the group comes across a shopping mall, which becomes their sanctuary.
To make the mall safe for habitation, they kill its zombie population and block the entrance to keep the zombies outside from entering.
During the operation, Roger becomes infected by the zombies' mutagen; but after clearing the mall of its zombies, the four live hedonistically upon its contents.
Later, they come to perceive themselves imprisoned by the zombies, and reveal that Francine is four months pregnant.
The men begin to consider leaving the mall; Stephen opposes the plan, but teaches Francine how to operate the helicopter in case of emergency.
Roger eventually succumbs to his wounds, reanimates, and is shot by Peter.
All emergency broadcast transmissions have ceased, suggesting that most civilization around them has collapsed.

On May 9, 1941, Leonie and Benjamin planned to fly from Long Island to Philadelphia.
The weather conditions were not suitable for flight but the couple insisted and did not heed to the warnings.
In the blinding rain the plane crashed into the side of a mountain killing the young couple instantly.
Leonie was thirty-one and had no children.

The nor'easter struck about 14 months after the 1991 Perfect Storm produced similarly high tides across the region, and only 11 months after another nor'easter in January 1992.
In Wilmington, North Carolina, the storm dropped  of rainfall, which broke the daily rainfall record set in 1888.
High tides damaged much of the dune system along the Assateague Island National Seashore and about a third of the newly-installed dunes in Ocean City, Maryland.
Along the Maryland coast, the storm dropped heavy rainfall, with a total of  in Salisbury; the high rains flooded local streams.
At Assateague National Seashore, wind gusts peaked at .
The storm struck shortly after a full moon, and the combination of high tides and waves breached dunes in some locations.
Despite its longevity, the nor'easter was less severe than its predecessors along the Delaware Bay, mostly because the stronger northeast quadrant was over the coastline for one tidal cycle, and the predominant southeast winds were blocked by Cape Henlopen.
However, there were still high tides and flooding along the Delaware Bay.
In Lewes, the nor'easter produced a high tide of , which at the time was the seventh highest on record.
High tides continued in Delaware until December 15.
Several days of high tides caused minor beach erosion and damaged dune systems.
In Dewey Beach, there was property damage from coastal flooding.
The storm produced significantly more rainfall than the storm in January 1992, including a total of  in Wilmington, Delaware.
A station in New Castle County reported a record 24 hour rainfall total of .
The rains caused flooding and the third highest discharge on record at Duck Creek in Smyrna.
Wind in Delaware peaked at  at a station along the Indian River.
Further north along the Delaware River, a high tide of  was reported in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
High winds in the city broke the steeple of a church, and the resulting debris briefly closed the Ben Franklin Bridge.
Hurricane force wind gusts left about 160,000 residents without power.
Heavy snowfall spread across the state, reaching .
State College reported a total of , which contributed to its snowiest December on record.

Anderson has had several injuries over his career.
In late 1991 he broke his kneecap when he hit a wall at the Rosemont Horizon in Chicago, forcing him to sit out the 1992 winter season.
He recovered and beat Jack Willman Jr. in Taurus at Carter Finley Stadium in Raleigh, North Carolina.
Later in 1992, a hard side hit on the wall of Louisville Motor Speedway in Louisville, Kentucky broke several ribs near his backbone and caused recurring problems throughout his career.
A nose-dive, AKA the lawn dart, at the Louisiana Superdome in New Orleans in 1999 aggravated the injury and caused Anderson to miss several shows over the next couple of years.
He reinjured himself at a Special Events show in Bloomsburg, Pennsylvania.
A broken hand from a non-driving accident in Philadelphia in 2003 sat him out for half of that year.
Another was an injury that was less known about was an injury to his right wrist during the summer of 2006 in a non monster truck accident.
Anderson's most recent injury is an arm injury at the Metrodome in late 2006, meaning his son Adam Anderson drove Grave Digger at shows in early 2007.

For loading a Philadelphia Deringer, one would typically fire a couple of percussion caps on the handgun, to dry out any residual moisture contained in the tube or at the base of the barrel, to prevent a subsequent misfire.
One would then remove the remains of the last fired percussion cap and place the handgun on its half-cock notch, pour 15 to 25 grains of blackpowder down the barrel, followed by ramming a patched lead ball down onto the powder, being very careful to leave no air gap between the patched ball and the powder, to prevent the handgun from exploding when used.
(The purpose of the patch on the ball was to keep the ball firmly lodged against the powder, to avoid creating what was called a "short start" when the ball was dislodged from being firmly against the powder.)
A new percussion cap would then be placed on the tube (what today would be called a nipple), and the gun was then loaded and ready to fire.
(The half-cock notch prevented the hammer from falling if the trigger were bumped accidentally while carrying the handgun in one's coat pocket.)
Then, to fire the handgun, a user would fully cock the hammer, aim, and squeeze the trigger.
Upon a misfire, the user could fully re-cock the hammer, and attempt to fire the handgun once more, or, equally common, switch to a second Deringer.
Accuracy was highly variable; although front sights were common, rear sights were less common, and some Philadelphia Deringers had no sights at all, being intended for point and shoot use instead of aim and shoot, across Poker-table distances.
Professional gamblers, and others who carried regularly, often would fire and reload daily, to decrease the chance of a misfire upon needing to use a Philadelphia Deringer.

Whilst lecturing in America Lardner was paid by Norris Brothers, the largest firm of locomotive builders, to investigate a fatal accident in Reading, near Philadelphia, where a boiler had exploded on a newly made train.
Lardner pronounced that the accident had been caused by lightning, which meant that Norris brothers were not personally liable for the accident.
A committee of the Franklin Institute pointed out that there was no lightning present at that time and that the pumps had been faulty, the water indicator was ill-designed and the bridge-bands made of cast iron rather than wrought iron.
The Coroner's inquest jury were persuaded by Lardner that the accident was an 'act of God' but the company were careful to design their later locomotives with wrought-iron bands.

On July 23, 1999, during the offseason after his rookie NHL campaign, Tertyshny was on a boating trip to Okanagan Lake in British Columbia with two players from the Flyers' minor-league affiliate Philadelphia Phantoms, Francis Belanger and Mikhail Chernov, when a freak accident caused him to suffer fatal injuries.
The boat hit a wave and caused him to fall forward overboard.
The boat ran over him and its propeller slashed his neck and his jugular vein.

Twice during his baseball career Medich went into the stands during a game to aid a fan who was suffering a heart attack.
In 1976 in Philadelphia he performed CPR and mouth-to-mouth on a fan who died later that day.
In a 1978 game between the Texas Rangers and the Baltimore Orioles he revived a man who was suffering a heart attack.
The man survived and lived several more years.

The result of the sudden shift of the party line caused shock and confusion among many members of the Communist Party USA, a goodly number of whom had joined during the period of the Popular Front against fascism.
Browder declared at one Philadelphia rally that only "a dozen or so" had left the CPUSA over the change of line; in actuality the party's ranks fell by 15% between 1939 and 1940 and recruitment of new members in 1940 fell by 75% over 1938 levels.
The public image of the USSR as a main bulwark against fascism and claims of the CPUSA as an indigenous radical organization were severely undermined.

According to "The Baseball Necrology", Irvin died in 1916 from injuries suffered when he was "thrown through a saloon window" in Philadelphia.
("The Baseball Necrology: The Post-Baseball Lives and Deaths of Over 7,600 Major League Players and Others", by Bill Lee.)

In August 1987, several months after Fox fired Rivers, Rosenberg committed suicide by overdosing on prescription drugs in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
He had been suffering from clinical depression, which Rivers believes was brought on by medication he had been taking since suffering a heart attack in 1984.

In the Philadelphia area, 3,500 homes were flooded and 1,000 residents were evacuated.
Around 400 people became stranded at the Radisson Hotel.
Although wind gusts were below hurricane-force in Pennsylvania, saturated ground from the torrential precipitation resulted in widespread downed trees, some of which struck houses and vehicles.
Gibson's Covered Bridge sustained severe damage due to fallen trees.
Over 500,000 homes and businesses lost power as a result of Tropical Storm Floyd.
On the Rockville Bridge, which spans the Susquehanna River, high winds tipped over some cars of a freight train.

Floyd produced moderate to heavy rainfall across the eastern half of the state, concentrated in extreme southeastern areas, where as much as  of precipitation fell.
In Marcus Hook, the highest verifiable storm rainfall total of  was reported.
The  of precipitation at Philadelphia International Airport set a new daily rainfall record and an overall 24-hour record.
Rain from the storm exceeded 100-year levels along the axis of the most severe downpours.
A cold front that stalled on September 15 acted as a conveyor belt of tropical moisture, which reached the area early that same day.
The rainfall had abated by the afternoon on September 16.
Winds were generally below , although a gust to  occurred at the Commodore Barry Bridge.

Upon making landfall, Isabel produced a storm surge that tracked up the Delaware River, with a station along the river in Philadelphia reporting a storm tide of 9.47 feet (2.89 m).
There, the surge flooded low-lying areas along the river.
The large circulation of the hurricane produced moderate winds throughout the state, with wind gusts in the southeastern portion of the state reaching 60 mph (95 km/h) in Forks Township.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania also recorded a wind gust of 49 mph (79 km/h), which contributed to severe delays at the Philadelphia International Airport.
The moderate wind gust downed thousands of trees, tree limbs, and power lines.
PECO energy reported their worst power outage on record with about 572,425 customers losing electricity.
The company estimated it would cost at least $20 million (2003 USD, $23 million 2008 USD) for it to install about 81 miles (130 km) of new cable and install about 7,600 new fuses and circuit breakers.
The Metropolitan Edison power company reported 300,000 customers without power, with 500,000 Pennsylvania Power and Light customers losing electricity.

Continuing northward, heavy rains from Jeanne spread into Pennsylvania, bringing further floods to the already storm-stricken state.
Already saturated by the remnants of Hurricanes Frances and Ivan, soil across the state was unable to hold much additional moisture, resulting in widespread flooding.
Rainfall peaked at  in West Chester; this ranks Jeanne as the eighth wettest tropical cyclone on record in Pennsylvania.
Numerous creeks, streams and rivers overflowed their banks and inundated nearby areas.
In Chester County, the Brandywine Creek rose  above flood stage, resulting in swift water rescues and prompting emergency officials to open shelters.
Numerous roads across the state were shut down due to high waters.
In Philadelphia, flash flooding resulted in one fatality after a woman was swept away by swift currents while trying to board a SEPTA bus.
Six people attempted to rescue her, however, she became trapped under a pickup truck and drowned.
Several abandoned buildings in the city also collapsed.
A commuter train carrying 400 people was evacuated after passengers felt uneasy due to loose soil underneath the rails.
One of the major roadways connecting Philadelphia with a western suburb was shut down after more than  covered portions of it.
Several water rescues had to be made along the road after residents became trapped in flood waters.
Additionally, several schools were closed on September 29 due to hazardous conditions.
In all, Jeanne left $290 million (2004 USD; $  USD)in losses throughout Pennsylvania.

While in MacDowell Colony, New Hampshire, Chang met and became involved with the American screenwriter Ferdinand Reyher, a native of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
During the time they were briefly apart in New York (Chang in New York City, Reyher in Saratoga), Chang wrote to Reyher that she was pregnant with his child.
Reyher wrote back to propose.
Although Chang did not receive the letter, she telephoned the following morning to inform Reyher she was arriving in Saratoga.
Reyher had a chance to propose to her in person, but insisted that he did not want the child.
Chang suffered a miscarriage shortly thereafter.
On August 14, 1956, the couple married in New York City.
After the wedding, the couple moved back to New Hampshire.
After suffering a series of strokes, Reyher eventually became paralyzed before his death on October 8, 1967.

An unusually detailed accounting of the storm's passage through Richmond County, NC was provided two days later:  a local resident undertook an informal, but detailed survey of the damage produced by the storm, and this account was published in an Anson County (NC) newspaper.
This accounting establishes a steady SW-to-NE movement through the county, with a number of buildings - sharecropper cabins, large homes, and a mill - swept away along the path.
As the storm passed  SE of downtown Rockingham, it may have peaked in intensity; it was noted that all structures along a  segment of the path (beginning at this point) were destroyed.
The surveyor noted a path width of  to , with the most extreme damage (and most deaths) in the Philadelphia Church community.
The surveyor noted that:

Tracking to the northeast, it crossed the Pee Dee River into Richmond County, and produced sporadic damage until just southeast of Rockingham.
Extreme damage to pine forests was first noted just south of town.
Strengthening considerably, the storm swept through the southeast edge of Rockingham, where large homes were destroyed to their foundations, and large hardwood trees were snapped at ground level.
The Philadelphia Church community (presently on US Highway 1, 3 miles northeast of downtown Rockingham) was devastated, with most of the poorly constructed dwellings in the community completely destroyed.
The storm had widened to nearly 1 mile in width at this point.

Andolsek's name will forever be linked to other NFL tragedies.
In 1989, Andolsek's LSU offensive line teammate, Ralph Norwood, was killed in an automobile accident during his rookie season with the Atlanta Falcons.
During the 1991 season, Detroit Lions offensive line teammate Mike Utley was paralyzed during a football game.
Two days after Andolsek's death, Philadelphia Eagles defensive tackle Jerome Brown was killed in an automobile accident.
And two years after Andolsek's death, linebacker Toby Caston was also killed in an automobile accident.
Ironically, Caston was Andolsek's teammate with both LSU and the Detroit Lions.

"Erica Pratt" was an American kidnapping victim.
She was abducted on July 22, 2002 from a Philadelphia sidewalk.
There was one witness present, a 6 year old child named Rani Byrd.
Rani tried to help Erica but was pushed to the ground before two men pulled off.
When Erica's grandmother called for Erica and her sister, a crying Rani stated that Erica had been kidnapped, but her sister was around the corner.
Erica's abductors bound her hands and feet and held her captive in a vacant house until she was able to free herself by gnawing at the tape on her wrists and then smashing a window, a day after the kidnapping.
Both Pratt's bravery and the media's handling of the situation attracted considerable attention.

Prof. Wiggins was asked to comment by the New York Times on November 24, 1892 on an alleged collision between the Earth and a comet, reported by Prof. Snyder of Philadelphia.
Prof Wiggins stated that no such collision occurred on November 24, 1892 since there was no comet near the Earth at the time of the collision.
Prof Wiggins theorized that a Comet could not collide with the Earth because planets and comets are electrically positive and therefore repel each other, "If a comet were to strike the earth it would smash the comet into meteoric dust in twenty minutes."

There have been case studies of claims made.
Following a Kathryn Kuhlman 1967 fellowship in Philadelphia, Dr. William A. Nolen conducted a case study of 23 people who claimed to have been cured during her services.
Nolen's long-term follow-ups concluded there were no cures in those cases.
Furthermore, "one woman who was said to have been cured of spinal cancer threw away her brace and ran across the stage at Kuhlman's command; her spine collapsed the next day, according to Nolen, and she died four months later."
In 1976, Kuhlman died in Tulsa, Oklahoma, following open-heart surgery.

The film opens with Philadelphia Police Detective John Hobbes (Denzel Washington) in a snowy wood.
In the present day, Hobbes gains notoriety for capturing serial killer Edgar Reese (Elias Koteas).
After Reese is executed, Hobbes and his partner Jonesy (John Goodman) investigate a string of murders by an apparent copycat killer.
Eventually Hobbes tracks down the killer and confronts him alone, where the man makes a startling claim: he is the same killer Hobbes sentenced to death, but not Edgar Reese; rather, he is the demon Azazel, and was possessing Reese's body during the murders.
Azazel claims he can possess any person merely by touching them.
One of the few exceptions is Detective Hobbes, which has turned Azazel's ire at the Detective for capturing him into an obsession.
Hobbes is skeptical of Azazel's claims until the demon begins to sing "Time Is on My Side", then begins to possess people via touch, continuing to sing the song as he moves from body to body before fading away into the crowd of people on the street.
Hobbes follows a lead from a riddle Azazel gave him concerning Robert Milano, a decorated cop who committed suicide in his mountain cabin 30 years earlier.
Hobbes locates Milano's daughter, Gretta (Embeth Davidtz), who explains that her father was framed for corruption and killed himself to avoid his eventual conviction.
When Hobbes journeys to the cabin, he finds a clue uncovering a deeper truth: when he died Milano was trying to kill Azazel.

In Philadelphia itself, the combination of snow and sleet closed many of the schools, delayed flights, trains and buses.
The school district parochial schools were closed on the 14th, as were the regional and central administrative offices.
During the midday hours on the 14th, giant slabs of ice slid off tops of buildings in Center City and crashed to the ground.
Chunks of ice as large as three feet wide made their way to the pavement from high up.
Police started to block off areas where the ice was falling, however one man was hit in the head by the falling ice and was knocked to the ground.

In Monroe County, state police closed Interstates 80 and 380 during the afternoon of the 14th because of bad road conditions.
Interstate 80 was closed between Interstates 81 and 380.
The combination of a heavy snowfall then a mix of sleet, snow and freezing rain made for hazardous road conditions.
The mixed precipitation made it more difficult for some road crews to keep up.
At 4 PM EST on the 17th the interstates reopened after ice was removed and the road surfaces was safe for travel.
In and around the Greater Philadelphia Metropolitan area, in Bucks County, slippery road conditions contributed to a tractor-trailer accident on the 14th on Route 309 in Richland Township.
The highway was closed for more than an hour, which forced motorists to detour on slush-covered side streets.

In Pottstown, a large portion of the roof of a four-story building was blown off, forcing residents to evacuate the building.
An  pillar was knocked down at the First Moravian Church in Easton.
In Northampton County, a fire sparked by fallen power lines destroyed a barn and partially melted a nearby metal shed.
The blaze was fully contained by 40 firefighters.
Another fire sparked by fallen power lines destroyed a garage in Lower Merion Township.
In Philadelphia, the roof of a portable classroom began to peel off, forcing the forty students inside to evacuate to a safer structure.
A large tree fell through one house and severely damaged the roof of a nearby home.
Numerous major highways and local streets were shut down for several hours to allow cleanup crews to clear debris.
Throughout the state, damages from the storm system amounted to $3.7 million.

Some heroin dealers mix fentanyl powder with heroin to increase potency or compensate for low-quality heroin.
In 2006, illegally manufactured, non-pharmaceutical fentanyl often mixed with cocaine or heroin caused an outbreak of overdose deaths in the United States, heavily concentrated in the cities of Dayton, Ohio; Chicago; Detroit; Philadelphia; Baltimore; Pittsburgh; St. Louis; Milwaukee; Camden, New Jersey; Little Rock; and Dallas were also affected.
The mixture of fentanyl and heroin is known as "magic" or "the bomb", among other names, on the street.

J.W. Buel.
1890.
Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found Emin Pasha.
A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in Africa, from the earliest ages to the present time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of Stanley's famous relief of Emin Pasha, replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as represented in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as Henry M. Stanley, Emin Pasha, Gen. (Chinese) Gordon, and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for more than one thousand years, have made Africa a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
Covering the whole history of African exploration and discovery.
Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
New Edition.
Philadelphia, PA, St. Louis, MO: Historical Publishing Company.

J.W. Buel.
1890.
Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found Emin Pasha.
A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in Africa, from the earliest ages to the present time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of Stanley's famous relief of Emin Pasha, replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as represented in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as Henry M. Stanley, Emin Pasha, Gen. (Chinese) Gordon, and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for more than one thousand years, have made Africa a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
Covering the whole history of African exploration and discovery.
Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
New Edition.
Philadelphia, PA, St. Louis, MO: Historical Publishing Company.

J.W. Buel.
1890.
Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found Emin Pasha.
A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in Africa, from the earliest ages to the present time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of Stanley's famous relief of Emin Pasha, replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as represented in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as Henry M. Stanley, Emin Pasha, Gen. (Chinese) Gordon, and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for more than one thousand years, have made Africa a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
Covering the whole history of African exploration and discovery.
Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
New Edition.
Philadelphia, PA, St. Louis, MO: Historical Publishing Company.

J.W. Buel.
1890.
Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found Emin Pasha.
A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in Africa, from the earliest ages to the present time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of Stanley's famous relief of Emin Pasha, replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as represented in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as Henry M. Stanley, Emin Pasha, Gen. (Chinese) Gordon, and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for more than one thousand years, have made Africa a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
Covering the whole history of African exploration and discovery.
Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
New Edition.
Philadelphia, PA, St. Louis, MO: Historical Publishing Company.
queen Nzinga was living during this time.

J.W. Buel.
1890.
Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found Emin Pasha.
A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in Africa, from the earliest ages to the present time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of Stanley's famous relief of Emin Pasha, replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as represented in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as Henry M. Stanley, Emin Pasha, Gen. (Chinese) Gordon, and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for more than one thousand years, have made Africa a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
Covering the whole history of African exploration and discovery.
Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
New Edition.
Philadelphia, PA, St. Louis, MO: Historical Publishing Company.

J.W. Buel.
1890.
Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found Emin Pasha.
A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in Africa, from the earliest ages to the present time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of Stanley's famous relief of Emin Pasha, replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as represented in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as Henry M. Stanley, Emin Pasha, Gen. (Chinese) Gordon, and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for more than one thousand years, have made Africa a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
Covering the whole history of African exploration and discovery.
Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
New Edition.
Philadelphia, PA, St. Louis, MO: Historical Publishing Company.

J.W. Buel.
1890.
Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found Emin Pasha.
A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in Africa, from the earliest ages to the present time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of Stanley's famous relief of Emin Pasha, replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as represented in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as Henry M. Stanley, Emin Pasha, Gen. (Chinese) Gordon, and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for more than one thousand years, have made Africa a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
Covering the whole history of African exploration and discovery.
Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
New Edition.
Philadelphia, PA, St. Louis, MO: Historical Publishing Company.

J.W. Buel.
1890.
Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found Emin Pasha.
A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in Africa, from the earliest ages to the present time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of Stanley's famous relief of Emin Pasha, replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as represented in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as Henry M. Stanley, Emin Pasha, Gen. (Chinese) Gordon, and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for more than one thousand years, have made Africa a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
Covering the whole history of African exploration and discovery.
Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
New Edition.
Philadelphia, PA, St. Louis, MO: Historical Publishing Company.

J.W. Buel.
1890.
Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found Emin Pasha.
A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in Africa, from the earliest ages to the present time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of Stanley's famous relief of Emin Pasha, replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as represented in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as Henry M. Stanley, Emin Pasha, Gen. (Chinese) Gordon, and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for more than one thousand years, have made Africa a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
Covering the whole history of African exploration and discovery.
Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
New Edition.
Philadelphia, PA, St. Louis, MO: Historical Publishing Company.

J.W. Buel.
1890.
Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found Emin Pasha.
A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in Africa, from the earliest ages to the present time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of Stanley's famous relief of Emin Pasha, replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as represented in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as Henry M. Stanley, Emin Pasha, Gen. (Chinese) Gordon, and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for more than one thousand years, have made Africa a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
Covering the whole history of African exploration and discovery.
Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
New Edition.
Philadelphia, PA, St. Louis, MO: Historical Publishing Company.

Fire Insurance has over 200 years of history in America.
The early fire marks of Benjamin Franklin's time can still be seen on some Philadelphia buildings as well as in other older American cities.
Subscribers paid fire fighting companies in advance for fire protection and in exchange would receive a fire mark to attach to their building.
The payments for the fire marks supported the fire fighting companies.
Volunteer fire departments were also common in the United States, and some fire insurers contributed money to these departments and awarded bonuses to the first fire engine arriving at the scene of a fire.

The role of incendiary vessels changed throughout the age of the modern fire ship.
The systematic use of fire ships as part of naval actions peaked around the Third Anglo-Dutch War.
Whereas just twenty years before a naval fleet might have six to seven fire ships, by the Battle of Solebay in 1672 both the Dutch and English fleets employed typically between 20 and 30 fire ships, and sometimes more.
By this time, however, admirals and captains had become very experienced with the limitations of fire ship attacks and had learned how to avoid them during battle.
Great numbers of fire ships were expended during the Third Dutch War without destroying enemy men-of-war, and fire ships had become a way to harass and annoy the enemy, rather than destroy him.
The successful use of fire ships at the Battle of La Hogue and Cherbourg in 1692 marked both the greatest achievement of a fire ship attack since the Spanish Armada, and also the last significant success for fire ships.
Though fire ships as a specified class sailed with the British Royal Navy for another century, they would never have a significant impact on a naval victory.
Once the most feared weapons in naval arsenals, fire ships had declined in both importance and numbers, so that by the mid-18th century only five to six British fire ships would be at sea at a time, and the Royal Navy attempted only four attacks using modern fire ships between 1697 and 1800.
Hastily outfitted ad hoc fire ships continued to be used in naval warfare; for example, a large number of fire rafts were used in mostly ineffective attacks on the British fleet by American forces during the American Revolution at Philadelphia, on the Hudson River, and elsewhere.
The end of the modern fire ship came in the early 19th century, when the British began to use hastily outfitted fire ships at engagements such as Boulogne and Dunkirk despite the presence of purpose-built fire ships in the fleet.
The last modern fire ship in the British Royal Navy was "Thais", the only designated fire ship out of the entire navy of 638 warships when she was converted to a ship sloop in 1808.

On July 17, 1856, Fort Washington was the site of one of the worst train accidents in the United States when two North Pennsylvania Railroad trains collided with one another near the Sandy Run station (later renamed to Camp Hill, now the defunct Fellwick Station).
The exact number of deaths is uncertain, but 59 were killed instantly and dozens more perished from their injuries.
Many of the dead were children from St. Michael's Roman Catholic Church from the Kensington section of Philadelphia, who were traveling to Sheaff's Woods, a park in the Fort Washington area, for a Sunday school picnic.

In Philadelphia, an on-duty cop gets a call from a man he calls "Colonel" to pick up a briefcase at a nearby train station.
As he does so, a nearby pulse causes electronics to gain static, and his body becomes hardened.
He explodes, killing eleven people and injuring others with his hardened body parts.
Initially thinking the explosion was caused by a bomb, the Fringe team arrives to investigate, and discover that instead of a bomb, the cop's body parts killed the others.
A further autopsy reveals needle marks between the cop's toes, and they realize he was injecting some type of drug every day for at least a year.

Everything appeared in order as the train passed through North Philadelphia station ahead of schedule and slowed its speed, but shortly afterward, as it passed a rail yard, workers noticed flames coming from a journal box (a hot box) on one of the cars  and rang the next signal tower at Frankford Junction, but the call came too late.
Before the tower man could react, disaster struck as the train passed his signal tower at 6:06 pm traveling at a speed of 56 mph.
The journal box on the front of car #7 seized and an axle snapped, catching the underside of the truck and catapulting the car upwards.
It struck a signal gantry, which peeled off its roof along the line of windows "like a can of sardines".
Car #8 wrapped itself around the gantry upright in a figure U.
The next six cars were scattered at odd angles over the tracks, and the last two cars remained undamaged, with bodies of the 79 dead lying scattered over the tracks.
As it was wartime, many servicemen home on leave were aboard who helped the injured, workers from the nearby Cramp's shipyard arrived with acetylene torches to cut open cars to rescue the injured, a process that took until the following morning.
The rescue work was directed by mayor Bernard Samuel.
The work of removing the dead was not complete until 24 hours after the accident.

At 2:13pm, January 14, 1951, National's Flight 83, a DC-4, landed in Philadelphia from Newark, New Jersey, enroute to Norfolk, Virginia.
It skidded off the icy runway, through a fence, and into a ditch.
The left wing broke off, rupturing the gasoline tanks, and the plane caught fire.
Housley opened the emergency door and saw the ground eight feet below.
Returning to the cabin, she helped passengers release their seat belts, guided them to the door and gave a gentle shove to those who were hesitant to jump.
After saving 10 passengers, she returned to the cabin to try to rescue a baby.
After the fire was extinguished, the bodies of five women and two infants were found.
One of the women was Frankie Housley with a four-month old infant in her arms.

In December 1902, Dunlap died penniless and alone at age 43.
According to the "Sporting Life", the "last two years of his life were spent in abject poverty and mental gloom."
He reportedly lived in a "seedy Philadelphia rooming house," and died of "consumption of the bowels" at Philadelphia Hospital."
According to several accounts, a policeman at the morgue saw the body and believed it to be Dunlap.
Lave Cross was called to the morgue and confirmed that the body was Dunlap.
His funeral was poorly attended by his former baseball colleagues, and one former player who did attend observed, "There were not enough friends of Dunlap at his funeral to bury him and we had to call on the hack drivers to make up the list of active pall-bearers."
Following Dunlap's death, William A. Phelon, Jr., editor of "Sporting Life" wrote:"So Fred Dunlap has passed into the great beyond, and the man whose salary figure marked the high-water limit of the long ago is gone!
... What a ball player this Dunlap was and what an artist in getting the fat salaries!
... Dunlap was a real infielder of the type so popular ten years ago --  one of the solid, bulky style through whom no grounder seemed able to pass, but who could nevertheless wave the hot ones goodbye with graceful ease when occasion demanded.
With the gloves now in use to aid, Dunny would have been even a bigger wonder now than then."

Fred Sherman, a resident of King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, died on September 12, 2009, at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia at the age of 85. Sherman had suffered from several health problems, including kidney ailments, and injuries from a car accident several weeks before his death may have contributed to his declining health.
He suffered the car accident shortly after returning from a trip to Europe in July 2009, and had been hospitalized on several occasions since the accident.

The bridge passes over an oil refinery (originally owned by Gulf Oil, now by Sun Oil).
It has been imperiled a few times by fires at the refinery.
On August 17, 1975, fire broke out in a tank to the northeast of the bridge that was being filled with Venezuelan crude oil.
As the fire enveloped much of the refinery, several explosions put a large crack in a smokestack next to the bridge.
Officials closed the bridge for several hours, fearing that the stack might collapse or the fire might damage the bridge.
The 1975 Philadelphia Refinery Fire also killed eight firefighters.

Luks was found dead by a police officer in October, 1933 after he had died in the early hours of the morning after a bar room brawl.
Ira Glackens, the son of William Glackens, wrote of his recollection of Luks's death, stating that the papers proclaimed George was found dead at the doorway when he had planned on going to paint the dawn, when in actuality, the harmless old man had been beaten to death by one of the other customers at the bar.
In reference to his funeral, it was crowded by family and past and present friends.
He was buried in an eighteenth-century embroidered waistcoat that was one of his most important and valuable possessions.
According to newspaper reports, Luks funeral took place in New York City on Broadway 31-Oct-1933.
His body was then transferred for burial via the Reading Railroad, Philadelphia PA to Royersford PA on the 11:25 train.
A brief ceremony took place and he was buried with his late parents, Mr. & Mrs. Emil Luks.
Fernwood Cemetery.

On November 18, 1986, Carangi, aged 26, died of AIDS-related complications.
Her closed-casket funeral (recommended by the funeral director due to the ravages of AIDS, which was not properly understood at the time) was held on November 21 at a small funeral home in Philadelphia.
Nobody from the fashion world attended, mainly because no one knew about her death until months after she had died.
However, weeks later, Francesco Scavullo, Carangi's friend and confidant, sent a Mass card when he heard the news.

Following the capitulation of Italy in 1943, Germany damaged the Italian battleship "Italia" and sank the "Roma" with Fritz-X bombs.
Attacks were also made on the USS "Savannah", causing much damage and loss of life.
HMS "Warspite" was hit by three Fritz-X, and although casualties were few, had to be towed to Malta for repair and was out of action for six months.
The cruiser USS "Philadelphia" was very slightly damaged by several near misses of Fritz-X bombs.
The light cruiser HMS "Uganda" was also hit and put out of action for almost the entire war as a result.

The winter storm wreaked havoc at Philadelphia International Airport had most flights on the 16th cancelled and it took a couple of days for flights to return to normal.
The largest impact of the winter storm within Philadelphia was the cancellation of most of the 1,200 scheduled flights at the Philadelphia International Airport.
About 1,000 people were stranded at the airport the night of the 16th.
Passengers on about 15 U.S. Airways planes sat on the tarmac for over four hours before gates became available to deplane them.
Operations resumed on the 17th, but U.S. Airways still had to cancel about one quarter of its flights because the weather prevented crews and planes from arriving in Philadelphia.
About 100 travelers slept at the airport on the night of the 18th.
Normal operations resumed on the 19th.

One reason for the fire's duration was the lack of national standards in fire-fighting equipment.
Fire crews and fire engines came from as far away as Philadelphia and Washington that day (units from New York City were on the way, but were blocked by a train accident; they arrived the next day).
The crews brought their own equipment.
Most could only watch helplessly when they discovered that their hoses could not fit Baltimore's hydrants.
High winds and freezing temperatures added to the difficulty for firefighters and further contributed to the severity of the fire.
As a result, the fire burned over 30 hours, destroying 1,545 buildings spanning 70 city blocks &mdash; amounting to over .

The fire began in the evening in a five-story warehouse at 25 Merchant Street (now called Beaver Street) at the intersection with Pearl Street between Hanover Square, Manhattan and Wall Street in the snow-covered city and was fed by gale-force winds blowing from the northwest towards the East River.
With temperatures as low as  and the East River frozen solid, firefighters had to cut holes in the ice to get water.
Water then froze in the hoses and pumps.
Attempts to blow up buildings in its path (a technique later regarded as counterproductive) were thwarted by a lack of gunpowder in Manhattan.
Firefighters coming to help from Philadelphia said they could see signs of the fire there.

The morning of April 11 saw a third of the city smoldering ruins, a forest of chimneys and walls amid a heap of ruins, although occasional buildings that were inexplicably left untouched amid the destruction.
It was said that “the best half of the city” had been burned, an area representing 60 acres, and the entire Second Ward of the city had just two or three dwellings untouched.
Local artist William Coventry Wall captured this landscape in a series of paintings which he quickly had printed as a lithograph.
This was published in Philadelphia and saw a broad market, as did prints by Nathaniel Currier in Boston and James Baillie in New York (both of whom based their works on newspaper reports), in line with a growing trend of ‘disaster prints.’
The fire destroyed as many as 1200 buildings, while displacing 2000 families, about 12,000 individuals, from their homes.
On the hills surrounding the city could be seen piles of household belongings.
Surprisingly, only 2 people died.
One was lawyer Samuel Kingston, who was thought to have returned to his house to rescue a piano but lost his bearings in the heat and smoke, his body being found in the basement of a neighbor’s destroyed house.
The other body was not found until weeks later, and is thought to be that of a Mrs. Maglone, whose family had advertised not having seen her since the fire.
Estimates of cost range from $5 to $25 million, one recent author placing it at $12,000,000, which he equated with $267 million in 2006 dollars.
Almost none of this was recoverable, as all but one of Pittsburgh's insurers were bankrupted by the disaster.

"The Great Train Wreck of 1856" occurred between Camp Hill and Fort Washington, Pennsylvania, on July 17, 1856.
Two trains, traveling on the same track in converging directions, collided, killing between 59 and 67, and injuring over 100.
The incident was referred to as "The Camp Hill Disaster" in Montgomery County, and "The Picnic Train Tragedy" in the city of Philadelphia.
It was the deadliest railroad catastrophe in the world up to that time and became one of the signature events of its era.

A method for performing a decapitation illusion, where a person's head is apparently severed and displayed on a plate next to their headless body, was described in "The Discoverie of Witchcraft" by Reginald Scot, published in 1584.
A decapitation illusion involving the apparent beheading of two boys and a dove was also recorded as being performed by Jacob Philadelphia in 1765.

Pitezel had agreed to fake his own death so that his wife could collect on the $10,000 policy, which she was to split with Holmes and the shady attorney, Howe.
The scheme, which was to take place in Philadelphia, was that Pitezel should set himself up as an inventor, under the name B.F. Perry, and then be killed and disfigured in a lab explosion.
Holmes was to find an appropriate cadaver to play the role of Pitezel.
Holmes instead killed Pitezel.
Forensic evidence presented at Holmes's later trial showed that chloroform was administered "after" Pitezel's death, presumably to fake suicide.
(Pitezel had been an alcoholic and chronic depressive.)
Holmes proceeded to collect on the policy on the basis of the genuine Pitezel corpse.
He then went on to manipulate Pitezel's wife into allowing three of her five children (Alice, Nellie, and Howard) to stay in his custody.
The eldest daughter and baby remained with Mrs. Pitezel.
He traveled with the children through the northern United States and into Canada.
Simultaneously, he escorted Mrs. Pitezel along a parallel route, all the while using various aliases and lying to Mrs. Pitezel concerning her husband's death (claiming that Pitezel was in hiding in South America) as well as lying to her about the true whereabouts of her other children—they were often separated by only a few blocks.
A Philadelphia detective, Frank P. Geyer, had tracked Holmes, finding the decomposed bodies of the two Pitezel girls in Toronto buried in the cellar of 16 St.
Vincent Street.
He then followed Holmes to Indianapolis, where Holmes had rented a cottage.
Holmes was reported to have visited a local pharmacy to purchase the drugs which he used to kill Howard Pitezel, and a repair shop to sharpen the knives he used to chop up the body before he burned it.
The boy's teeth and bits of bone were discovered in the home's chimney.

When Philadelphia fell to the British in 1777, several American vessels found themselves trapped between the city and the British fleet further down the Delaware River.
The Americans launched some three fire ships towards the British, but gunfire from "Roebuck", "Camilla", and other British vessels caused the Americans to set their ships on fire too soon, and to abandon them.
British boats were able to pull the fire ships on shore where they could do no harm.

On April 30, 1896, Disston had dinner with the mayor of Philadelphia and attended a theatre production with his wife in Philadelphia.
The following morning, he was found dead at age 51.
Although some claim that Disston committed suicide in his bathtub with a self-inflicted gunshot to the head, almost every obituary, as well as the official coroner's report, stated that he died of heart disease in bed.
"The New York Times" further reported that, several months before his death, Disston suffered from a bout of typhoid pneumonia.

Heat waves are the most lethal type of weather phenomenon, overall.
Between 1992 and 2001, deaths from excessive heat in the United States numbered 2,190, compared with 880 deaths from floods and 150 from hurricanes.
The average annual number of fatalities directly attributed to heat in the United States is about 400.
The 1995 Chicago heat wave, one of the worst in US history, led to approximately 600 heat-related deaths over a period of five days.
Eric Klinenberg has noted that in the United States, the loss of human life in hot spells in summer exceeds that caused by all other weather events combined, including lightning, rain, floods, hurricanes, and tornadoes.
Despite the dangers, Scott Sheridan, professor of geography at Kent State University, found that less than half of people 65 and older abide by heat-emergency recommendations like drinking lots of water.
In his study of heat-wave behavior, focusing particularly on seniors in Philadelphia, Phoenix, Toronto, and Dayton, Ohio, he found that people over 65 "don't consider themselves seniors."
"Heat doesn't bother me much, but I worry about my neighbors," said one of his older respondents.
According to the Agency for Health care Research and Quality, about 6,200 Americans are hospitalized each summer due to excessive heat, and those at highest risk are poor, uninsured or elderly.
More than 70,000 Europeans died as a result of the 2003 European heat wave.

Hundreds of thousands of people were left without power across the region.
In the Philadelphia area alone over 500,000 people were without power at the peak of the storm, according to PECO and PSE&G.
Many customers would remain without power until the weekend.
The outage took place just after PECO had set record highs for electricity usage as a result of the extreme heat wave.
Power crews from as far away as Chicago were called in to help restore power, after repairing the damage from the previous day's storms.
A state of emergency was declared in Bucks County, Pennsylvania as a result of the storm.

On October 8, 1998, while driving to Florida after being inducted into the [http://www.broadcastershalloffame.com/ Broadcasters Hall of Fame] the night before, Score was severely injured in a traffic accident.
Score pulled into the path of a westbound tractor-trailer truck in New Philadelphia, Ohio, and his car was struck in the passenger side.
He suffered trauma to his brain, chest and lungs.
The orbital bone around one of his eyes was fractured, as were three ribs and his sternum.
He spent over a month in the intensive care unit, and was released from MetroHealth Hospital in mid-December.
He was cited for failure to stop at a stop sign.

One reason for the fire's duration was the lack of national standards in fire-fighting equipment.
Although fire engines from nearby cities (such as Philadelphia and Washington, as well as units from New York, Wilmington, and Atlantic City) responded, many were useless because their hose couples failed to fit Baltimore hydrants.
As a result, the fire burned over 30 hours, destroying 1,526 buildings and spanning 70 city blocks.

Late on December 16, 1835 the Great Fire of New York broke out.
The temperature was below zero (F), and gale force winds were blowing.
Firemen, some called from as far away as Philadelphia, were at first helpless to battle the wind driven fire due to icing lines and pumps.
The fire leveled most of the city below Canal Street.
Some merchandise was carried to churches that were thought fireproof, but several of these burned anyway.
Eventually the fire was controlled by blowing up buildings in the fire's path.

