0 seattle As seen in the 1700 quake, the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake, and the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake, subduction zone earthquakes can cause large tsunamis, and many coastal areas in the region have prepared tsunami evacuation plans in anticipation of a possible future Cascadia earthquake. As seen in the  quake, the    earthquake, and the  Tōhoku earthquake, subduction zone earthquakes can cause large tsunamis, and many coastal areas in the region have prepared tsunami evacuation plans in anticipation of a possible   earthquake.
1 seattle However, the major nearby cities, notably Seattle, Portland, Vancouver, Victoria, and Tacoma, which are located on inland waterways rather than on the coast, would be sheltered from the full brunt of a tsunami. However, the major nearby cities, notably , , , , and , which are located on inland waterways rather than on the coast, would be sheltered from the full brunt of a tsunami.
2 seattle These cities do have many vulnerable structures, especially bridges and unreinforced brick buildings; consequently, most of the damage to the cities would probably be from the earthquake itself. These cities do have many vulnerable structures, especially bridges and unreinforced brick buildings; consequently, most of the damage to the cities would probably be from the earthquake itself.
3 seattle One expert asserts that buildings in Seattle are vastly inadequate even to withstand an earthquake of the size of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake, much less the much greater one that may well occur. expert asserts that buildings in  are vastly inadequate even to withstand an earthquake of the size of the    earthquake, much less the much greater  that may well occur.
4 seattle Seattle player Johnny O'Brien was the nation's leading scorer at that time. player   was the nation's leading scorer at that time.
5 seattle O'Brien would became the first player in the history of college basketball to score 1000 points in a single season. would became the  player in the history of college basketball to   points in a single season.
6 seattle He would finish the season with 1,051 points. He would finish the season with  points.
7 seattle Against the Globetrotters, O'Brien poured in 43 points. Against the ,  poured in  points.
8 seattle Johnny's brother Eddie  played point guard for Chieftains and his half court shot lifted the club to a 10 point lead. 's brother   played point guard for  and his half court shot lifted the club to a  point lead.
9 seattle The Chieftains led Kentucky by 11 points in the first half on two occasions. The Chieftains led  by  points in the  half on  occasions.
10 seattle In fact, Seattle was still leading by a score of 60–58 with seven minutes to go in the game. In fact,  was still leading by a  of – with   to go in the game.
11 seattle However, led by the sharp shooting of Vernon Hatton and Johnny Cox, Kentucky mounted a strong rally at the end, eventually winning the game by a final score of 84-72. However, led by the sharp shooting of   and  ,  mounted a strong rally at the end, eventually winning the game by a final  of .
12 seattle Hatton led Kentucky with 30 points, Cox followed him with 24 points for the Wildcats, while Seattle was led by Baylor, who scored 25 points before fouling out. led  with  points,  followed him with  points for the , while  was led by , who scored  points before fouling out.
13 seattle The victory sealed Kentucky's 4th NCAA Championship. The victory sealed 's   Championship.
14 seattle The major earthquake that struck on the Fairweather Fault had a Richter scale reading of 7.9 and a maximum perceived intensity of XI ("Extreme") on the Mercalli intensity scale, although some sources have reported the magnitude to be as much as 8.3 on the moment magnitude scale. The major earthquake that struck on the   had a  scale reading of  and a maximum perceived intensity of XI ("Extreme") on the  intensity scale, although some sources have reported the magnitude to be as much as  on the moment magnitude scale.
15 seattle The epicenter of the quake was at latitude 58.6° N, longitude 137.1° The epicenter of the quake was at latitude  N, longitude
16 seattle W near the Fairweather Range,  east of the surface trace of the Fairweather fault, and  southeast of Lituya Bay. W near the  ,  east of the surface trace of the  fault, and  southeast of  .
17 seattle This earthquake had been the strongest in over 50 years for this region. This earthquake had been the strongest in over   for this region.
18 seattle The Cape Yakataga earthquake, with a reading of 8.2 on the Richter scale, occurred on September 4, 1899. The   earthquake with a reading of  on the  scale occurred on   .
19 seattle The shock was felt in southeastern Alaska cities over an area of , as far south as Seattle, Washington, and as far east as Whitehorse, Y.T., Canada. The shock was felt in southeastern  cities over an area of , as far south as , , and as far east as , , .
20 seattle Robertson's achievements include an NBA championship with the Milwaukee Bucks in 1971, Most Valuable Player Award in 1964, 11 All-NBA Team selections and 12 All-Star Game selections. 's achievements include an  championship with the   in , Most Valuable Player Award in ,  All-  selections and    selections.
21 seattle West played 14 seasons with the Lakers, winning the NBA championship in 1972. West played  seasons with the , winning the  championship in .
22 seattle He was also selected to 12 consecutive All-NBA Teams and 14 consecutive All-Star Games. He was also selected to  consecutive All-NBA Teams and  consecutive  .
23 seattle He later coached the Lakers for three seasons. He later coached the Lakers for  seasons.
24 seattle Wilkens' achievements include 9 All-Star Game selections. ' achievements include    selections.
25 seattle After his playing career, he became a successful head coach. After his playing career, he became a successful head coach.
26 seattle He won the NBA championship in 1979 with the Seattle SuperSonics and the Coach of the Year Award in 1994. He won   championship in  with    and       in .
27 seattle He held the record for most games as a head coach in the NBA, with 2,487 games coached. He held the record for most games as a head coach in the , with  games coached.
28 seattle He was inducted to the Basketball Hall of Fame as a coach in 1998. He was inducted to the     as a coach in .
29 seattle He became the third person that has been inducted as a player and as a coach, after John Wooden and Bill Sharman. He became the  person that has been inducted as a player and as a coach, after   and  .
30 seattle Two players from this draft, 3rd pick Darrall Imhoff and 5th pick Lee Shaffer, have also been selected to an All-Star Game. players from this draft,  pick   and  pick  , have also been selected to an  .
31 seattle Tom Sanders, the 8th pick, won 8 NBA championships with the Boston Celtics in the 1960s. ,   pick, won   championships with    in  .
32 seattle He later briefly coached the Celtics in 1978. He later briefly coached the  in .
33 seattle Al Attles, the 39th pick, also had a coaching career. , the  pick, also had a coaching career.
34 seattle He coached the San Francisco/Golden State Warriors for 14 seasons, winning the NBA championship in 1975. He coached the   State Warriors for  seasons, winning the  championship in .
35 seattle Paul Silas, the 10th pick, won three NBA championships, two with the Boston Celtics in 1974 and 1976 and one with the Seattle SuperSonics in 1979. , the  pick, won   championships,  with the   in  and  and  with the   in .
36 seattle He also had two All-Star Game selections. He also had   Game selections.
37 seattle After his playing career, he coached three NBA teams, most recently with the Cleveland Cavaliers. After his playing career, he coached   teams, most  with the  .
38 seattle Jerry Sloan, the 19th pick, was selected to two All-Star Games in his playing career before becoming a head coach. , the  pick, was selected to    in his playing career before becoming a head coach.
39 seattle He coached the Chicago Bulls for three seasons before being fired during the 1981–82 season. He coached the   for  seasons before being fired during the – season.
40 seattle He then became the head coach of the Utah Jazz in 1988, the position he held until resigning in early 2011. He then became the head coach of the   in , the position he held until resigning in  .
41 seattle He has been inducted to the Basketball Hall of Fame as a coach. He has been inducted to the     as a coach.
42 seattle Abdul-Rahman, 2nd pick Joe Caldwell, 4th pick Lucious Jackson and 5th pick Jeff Mullins are the only other players from this draft who have been selected to an All-Star Game. ,  pick  ,  pick   and  pick   are the only other players from this draft who have been selected to an  .
43 seattle John Thompson, the 25th pick, has also been inducted to the Basketball Hall of Hame as a coach. , the  pick, has also been inducted to the Basketball Hall of  as a coach.
44 seattle After finishing his playing career, he became a successful college basketball head coach at Georgetown University. After finishing his playing career, he became a successful college basketball head coach at  .
45 seattle He coached the Georgetown Hoyas for 27 seasons, winning the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) championship in 1984 and becoming the first African American head coach to win a major collegiate championship. He coached the   for  seasons, winning the     () championship in  and becoming the    head coach to win a major collegiate championship.
46 seattle Aside from playing basketball, 12th pick Cotton Nash also played professional baseball in the Major League Baseball (MLB). Aside from playing basketball,  pick   also played professional baseball in the    (MLB).
47 seattle He played baseball for three seasons in between his basketball career. He played baseball for  seasons in between his basketball career.
48 seattle He is one of only 12 athletes who have played in both NBA and MLB. He is  of only  athletes who have played in both  and MLB.
49 seattle Bob Love, the 33rd pick, was selected to two All-NBA Teams and three All-Star Games. , the  pick, was selected to    and   .
50 seattle Jerry Sloan, the 4th pick, was selected to two All-Star Games during his playing career before becoming a head coach. , the  pick, was selected to    during his playing career before becoming a head coach.
51 seattle He coached the Chicago Bulls for three seasons before being fired during the 1981–82 season. He coached the   for  seasons before being fired during the – season.
52 seattle He then became the head coach of the Utah Jazz in 1988, the position he held until resigning in early 2011. He then became the head coach of the   in , the position he held until resigning in  .
53 seattle He has been inducted to the Basketball Hall of Fame as a coach. He has been inducted to the     as a coach.
54 seattle Twin brothers Dick and Tom Van Arsdale, who were drafted with the 10th and 11th picks, became the first set of twins to play in the NBA. Twin brothers     , who were drafted with the    picks, became the  set of twins to play in the .
55 seattle Each of them had three All-Star Game selections. Each of them had    selections.
56 seattle They played for different NBA teams until their last season, which they spent together as a member of the Phoenix Suns. They played for different  teams until their last season, which they spent together as a member of the  .
57 seattle Dick Van Arsdale also had a coaching career. also had a coaching career.
58 seattle He was the interim head coach of the Suns in 1987. He was the interim head coach of the  in .
59 seattle Two other players from this draft, 15th pick Flynn Robinson and 24th pick Jon McGlocklin, have also been selected to an All-Star Game. other players from this draft,  pick   and  pick  , have also been selected to an  .
60 seattle Bob Weiss, the 22nd pick, also became a head coach after ending his playing career. , the  pick, also became a head coach after ending his playing career.
61 seattle He coached four NBA teams, most recently with the Seattle SuperSonics. He coached   teams, most  with the  .
62 seattle Tal Brody, the 12th pick, never played in the NBA. , the  pick, never played in the .
63 seattle He joined Israeli club Maccabi Tel Aviv in 1966 and played there until his retirement in 1980, winning several Israeli league titles and an European Cup Championship in 1977. He joined  club    in  and played there until his retirement in , winning several  league titles and an    in .
64 seattle He also became an Israeli citizen and played for Israeli national team. He also became an  citizen and played for  national team.
65 seattle Aside from playing in the NBA, 20th pick Ron Reed also played professional baseball in the Major League Baseball (MLB). Aside from playing in the ,  pick   also played professional baseball in the    (MLB).
66 seattle He ended his dual-sport career in 1967 to focus on baseball. He ended his dual-sport career in  to focus on baseball.
67 seattle He played 19 seasons in the MLB with three teams, winning the World Series once. He played  seasons in the  with  teams, winning the   .
68 seattle He was also an MLB All-Star. He was also an  .
69 seattle He is one of only 12 athletes who have played in both NBA and MLB. He is  of only  athletes who have played in both  and MLB.
70 seattle The Seattle SuperSonics, the 11th franchise in the NBA, were founded by a group of investors led by Sam Schulman and Eugene Klein. The  , the  franchise in the , were founded by a group of investors led by   and  .
71 seattle The Sonics were founded by  Schulman then served as president of the team and head of operations. The Sonics were founded by   then served as president of the team and head of operations.
72 seattle He hired former Chicago Bulls assistant coach Al Bianchi to became the franchise's first head coach. He hired former   assistant coach   to became the franchise's  head coach.
73 seattle The Sonics' selections included six-time All-Star Richie Guerin and one-time All-Star Tom Meschery. The ' selections included six-time    and one-time   .
74 seattle Guerin, who was serving as the St. Louis Hawks' player-coach when the Sonics selected him, decided to retired from playing and became a full-time head coach for the Hawks. , who was serving as the   ' player-coach when the  selected him, decided to retired from playing and became a full-time head coach for the .
75 seattle He never played for the Sonics, even though he later came back from retirement to play with the Hawks. He never played for the , even though he later came back from retirement to play with the .
76 seattle Nine players from the expansion draft joined the Sonics for their inaugural season, but only four played more than one season for the team. players from the expansion draft joined the  for their inaugural season, but only  played more than  season for the team.
77 seattle Mahdi Abdul-Rahman (then known as Walt Hazzard), who only played one season with the Sonics, was named to the 1968 All-Star Game, becoming the franchise's first All-Star. (then known as  ), who only played  season with the , was named to the   , becoming the franchise's  .
78 seattle The "1967 NBA Expansion Draft" was the third expansion draft of the National Basketball Association (NBA). The "  Expansion Draft" was the  expansion draft of the    ().
79 seattle The draft was held on May 1, 1967, so that the newly founded San Diego Rockets and Seattle SuperSonics could acquire players for the upcoming 1967–68 season. The draft was held on   967 so that the newly founded    and   could acquire players for the upcoming 967– season.
80 seattle Seattle and San Diego had been awarded the expansion teams on December 20, 1966 and January 11, 1967 respectively. and   had been awarded the expansion teams on    and    respectively.
81 seattle The Rockets moved to Houston, Texas in  and are currently known as the Houston Rockets. The  moved to ,  in  and are  known as the  .
82 seattle The SuperSonics moved to Oklahoma City, Oklahoma in 2008 and are currently known as the Oklahoma City Thunder. The  moved to  ,  in  and are  known as the   .
83 seattle In an NBA expansion draft, new NBA teams are allowed to acquire players from the previously established teams in the league. In an  expansion draft, new  teams are allowed to acquire players from the  established teams in the league.
84 seattle Not all players on a given team are available during an expansion draft, since each team can protect a certain number of players from being selected. Not all players on a given team are available during an expansion draft, since each team can protect a certain number of players from being selected.
85 seattle The Rockets and the Sonics both selected fifteen unprotected players each, while the ten other NBA teams lost three players each. The Rockets and the  both selected  unprotected players each, while the  other  teams lost  players each.
86 seattle Three other NBA teams won 50 or more games this year, getting some easy ones at the expense of the new clubs in Seattle and San Diego. other  teams won  or more games  , getting some easy ones at the expense of the new clubs in  and  .
87 seattle The St. Louis Hawks, now fully recovered from the retirement of Bob Pettit, posted 56 wins to win the NBA's West Division. The   ,  fully recovered from the retirement of  , posted  wins to win the 's  .
88 seattle Rich Guerin's club got strong rebounding from their frontline and got 20-point scoring from All-Pro point guard Lenny Wilkens and center Zelmo Beaty. 's club got strong rebounding from their frontline and got 20-point scoring from All-Pro point guard   and center  .
89 seattle The Hawks did have seven scorers over ten points per game, but lost Lou Hudson to military service for 35 games, which slowed them down. The  did have  scorers over  points per game, but lost   to military service for  games, which slowed them down.
90 seattle The Hawks again also had the league's top-rated defense. The Hawks again also had the league's top-rated defense.
91 seattle Following the season, the Hawks would relocate to Atlanta. Following the season, the  would relocate to .
92 seattle Seattle kicked off the regular season with a game against the San Francisco Warriors on October 13 at the Cow Palace, where they fell 114–116. kicked off the regular season with a game against the    on   at the Cow Palace, where they fell –.
93 seattle Walt Hazzard had a high scoring debut, leading the Sonics' offense with 30 points, followed by Tom Meschery with 26. had a high scoring debut, leading the ' offense with  points, followed by   with .
94 seattle After a week off, the Sonics played in consecutive days against the other expansion franchise, the San Diego Rockets, splitting the series and thus winning their first regular season game in franchise history. After   off, the  plyed in consecutive dys ginst the other expnsion frnchise, the Sn  , splitting the series nd thus winning their  regulr seson gme in frnchise history.
95 seattle After two streaks of four and eight straight losses, the Sonics found themselves quickly near the bottom of the Western Division by the end of the first four weeks of competition. After  streaks   and  straight losses,  Sonics found mselves quickly near  bottom     by         competition.
96 seattle A few surprising results stood out, including their only victory against Bill Russell's Boston Celtics in a double-header in Philadelphia, with the Celtics trailing by as much as 44 points after the first half, and an outstanding performance by rookie Bob Rule, with 47 points in a victory against the Los Angeles Lakers. A few surprising results stood out, including their only victory against  's   in a double-header in , with the  trailing by as much as  points after the  half, and an outstanding performance by rookie  , with  points in a victory against the   .
97 seattle On the other hand, the SuperSonics were on the losing end of two NBA scoring records. On the other hand, the  were on the losing end of   scoring records.
98 seattle First, in December with a 122–160 loss against defending champions Philadelphia 76ers, that set a new NBA record for most points by a team in a quarter and a 123–154 loss against the Lakers on January that tied a franchise record for Los Angeles for most points in a game. , in  with  – loss ginst defending chmpions  76ers, tht set  new  record for most points by  tem in  qurter nd  – loss ginst the Lkers on Jnury tht tied  frnchise record for   for most points in  gme.
99 seattle With six games left in the regular season the Sonics were behind two games from the Chicago Bulls in a last effort to obtain a berth in the playoffs, But in spite of defeating the Bulls in two of those six games, Chicago managed to pull away with the fourth place in the Western Division and the last spot in the playoff race, six games above the Sonics. With  games left in the regular season the  were behind  games from the   in a last effort to obtain a berth in the playoffs, But in spite of defeating the  in  of those  games,  managed to pull away with the  place in the   and the last spot in the playoff race,  games above the .
100 seattle The twelve-man roster for the 1967–68 season consisted of three rookies from the 1967 NBA Draft and nine players from the expansion draft. The twelve-man roster for the – season consisted of  rookies from the   Draft and  players from the expansion draft.
101 seattle Al Bianchi's choice of player-coach Richie Guerin from the St. Louis Hawks came as a surprise to most, since Guerin had already announced his retirement, and thus did not play for the Sonics. 's choice of player-coach   from the    came as a surprise to most, since  had already announced his retirement, and thus did not play for the .
102 seattle He would return for the 1968–69 season to play for the relocated Atlanta Hawks after Seattle traded him in the offseason. He would return for the – season to play for the relocated   after  traded him in the offseason.
103 seattle Selecting Tom Meschery from the San Francisco Warriors was made posible after the Warriors unprotected him for the draft, after Meschery informed the San Francisco front office that he desired to join the Peace Corps. Selecting   from the    was made posible after the  unprotected him for the draft, after  informed the   front office that he desired to join the  .
104 seattle Seattle's offer, however, was accepted by Meschery. 's offer, however, was accepted by .
105 seattle The SuperSonics planned to sign former Seattle University  player Charlie Williams before the start of the regular season, but league rules prohibited the Seattle franchise to offer him a contract, since Williams was expelled from college after a point shaving scandal. The  planned to sign former    player   before the start of the regular season, but league rules prohibited the  franchise to offer him a contract, since  was expelled from college after a point shaving scandal.
106 seattle The "1968-69 Atlanta Hawks season" was the team's first season in Atlanta, after their relocation from St. Louis, where the franchise played the previous thirteen seasons. The "   season" was the team's  season in , after their relocation from  , where the franchise played the previous  seasons.
107 seattle The franchise traded Lenny Wilkens to the Seattle Supersonics in exchange for Walt Hazzard. The franchise traded   to the   in exchange for  .
108 seattle Hazzard would help lead the Hawks to a second place finish with a record of 48 wins and 34 losses. would help led the  to   plce finish with  record of  wins nd  losses.
109 seattle In the playoffs, the Hawks eliminated the San Diego Rockets in six games. In the playoffs, the  eliminated the    in  games.
110 seattle In the Western Conference Finals, the Hawks challenged the Los Angeles Lakers. In the   , the  challenged the   .
111 seattle The Lakers would eliminate the Hawks in 5 games. The Lakers would eliminate the  in  games.
112 seattle The "1968&ndash;69 Phoenix Suns season" was the inaugural season for the Phoenix Suns of the National Basketball Association. The "&ndash;   season" was the inaugural season for the   of the   .
113 seattle In the season Suns' debut, head coach Red Kerr led the franchise to its first win in a victory over the Seattle SuperSonics. In the season Suns' debut, head coach   led the franchise to its  win in a victory over the  .
114 seattle No other season for the Suns contained as many losses as the franchise's first season, and it would not be long before the team provided the city of Phoenix with its first opportunity to host a home playoff game. No other season for the  contained as many losses as the franchise's  season, and it would not be long before the team provided the city of  with its  opportunity to host a home playoff game.
115 seattle All home games were played at Arizona Veterans Memorial Coliseum. All home games were played at  Veterans Memorial Coliseum.
116 seattle Both John Hummer and Geoff Petrie were selected to the All-Ivy League first team. Both   and   were selected to the    team.
117 seattle Petrie, who led the conference in scoring with a 23.9 average in conference games, was also an All-East selection. , who led the conference in scoring with a  average in conference games, was also an  selection.
118 seattle Thomforde was selected in the 1969 NBA Draft by the New York Knicks with the 96th overall selection in the 7th round. was selected in the    by the    with the  overall selection in the  round.
119 seattle Hummer led the conference in field goal percentage with 55.4%. led the conference in field goal percentage with 55.4%.
120 seattle Petrie and Hummer would become the only Tiger teammates to both be drafted in the first round of the NBA Draft (in the same draft no less) when they were selected eighth and fifteenth overall in the 1970 NBA Draft by the Portland Trail Blazers and the Buffalo Braves. would become the only Tiger teammates to both be drafted in the  round of the NBA Draft (in the same draft no less) when they were selected    overall in the  NBA Draft by the Portl    the  .
121 seattle The two were part of a trio of 1970 NBA first-round draftees from the Ivy League that included number thirteen selection Jim McMillian of Columbia. The  were part of a trio of  NBA first-round draftees from the   that included number  selection   of .
122 seattle Hummer was the first NBA draft pick by the expansion Buffalo Braves. was the   draft pick by the expansion  .
123 seattle Petrie would share the 1971 NBA Rookie of the Year Award with Dave Cowens. would share   NBA Rookie of   Award with  .
124 seattle Brian Taylor was selected in the 1972 NBA Draft by the Seattle SuperSonics with the 23rd overall selection in the second round while Reggie Bird was selected by the Atlanta Hawks with the 55th overall selection in the fourth round. was selected in the  NBA Draft by the   with the  overall selection in the  round while   was selected by the   with the  overall selection in the  round.
125 seattle Despite losing the number one draft pick to the Bucks, the Suns would win another significant coin flip. Despite losing the number  draft pick to the Bucks, the  would win another significant coin flip.
126 seattle The Suns bested the Seattle SuperSonics for the rights to ABA star Connie Hawkins. The Suns bested the   for the rights to  star  .
127 seattle In his freshmen year with Iowa, Hawkins was implicated, without evidence, in a point shaving scandal, which led to his expulsion from the university. In his freshmen  with ,  was implicated, without evidence, in a point shaving scandal, which led to his expulsion from the university.
128 seattle While eligible, Hawkins went undrafted in the 1964, 1965 and 1966 NBA drafts, before being officially barred from the league. While eligible,  went undrafted in the ,  and  NBA drafts, before being officially barred from the league.
129 seattle Hawkins would star in the upstart American Basketball League (ABL), winning the Most Valuable Player Award in the ABL's inaugural 1961–62 season. would star in the upstart    (), winning the Most Valuable Player Award in the 's inaugural – season.
130 seattle Hawkins would then spend four years with the Harlem Globetrotters, before joining the Pittsburgh Pipers of the upstart American Basketball Association (ABA) in 1967. would then spend   with the  , before joining the   of the upstart    (ABA) in .
131 seattle Hawkins led the league in scoring, while leading the Pipers to the first ABA championship, and receiving the ABA's first Most Valuable Player Award in 1968. led the league in scoring, while leading the Pipers to the   championship, and receiving the 's  Most Valuable Player Award in .
132 seattle In 1966, Hawkins' attorneys filed a $6 million anti-trust lawsuit against the NBA. In , ' attorneys filed a $6 million anti-trust lawsuit against the .
133 seattle In 1969, a Time Magazine article absolved Hawkins from involvement in the point shaving scandal, leading the NBA to pay a $1.3 million settlement and allow Hawkins into the league. In , a   article absolved  from involvement in the point shaving scandal, leading the  to pay a $1.3 million settlement and allow  into the league.
134 seattle "The Hawk" would become the Suns first star, making the All-NBA First Team in 1970, and appearing in four consecutive All-Star Games. "The Hawk" would become the   star, making the    in , and appearing in  consecutive  .
135 seattle On November 19, 1976, Hawkins became the first player in Suns franchise history to have his number retired. On   76  became the  player in  franchise history to have his number retired.
136 seattle On September 11, 1969, the Suns waived swingman Bob Warlick. On    the  waived swingman  .
137 seattle Warlick would sign as a free agent with the Los Angeles Stars of the ABA. would sign as a free agent with the Los Angeles Stars of the .
138 seattle On October 1, 1969, Dave "Big Daddy D" Lattin was waived. On   969  "Big Daddy D"  was waived.
139 seattle Lattin would later sign with the Pittsburgh Condors of the ABA. would later sign with the  Condors of the .
140 seattle Although Hummer repeated as an All-Ivy League first team selection, Petrie failed to do so and was a second team selection. Although  repeted s n    tem selection,  filed to do so nd ws   tem selection.
141 seattle However, Petrie was a third team All-American selection by the "Basketball News" and repeated as an All-East selection. However,  was a  team  selection by the " " and repeated as an  selection.
142 seattle Petrie and Hummer were the only Tiger teammates to both be drafted in the first round of the NBA Draft (in the same draft no less) when they were selected eighth and fifteenth overall in the 1970 NBA Draft by the Portland Trail Blazers and the Buffalo Braves. were the only Tiger teammates to both be drafted in the  round of the NBA Draft (in the same draft no less) when they were selected    overall in the  NBA Draft by the Portl    the  .
143 seattle The two were part of a trio of 1970 NBA first-round draftees from the Ivy League that included number thirteen selection Jim McMillian of Columbia. The  were part of a trio of  NBA first-round draftees from the   that included number  selection   of .
144 seattle Hummer was the first NBA draft pick by the expansion Buffalo Braves. was the   draft pick by the expansion  .
145 seattle Petrie would share the 1971 NBA Rookie of the Year Award with Dave Cowens. would share   NBA Rookie of   Award with  .
146 seattle Brian Taylor was selected in the 1972 NBA Draft by the Seattle SuperSonics with the 23rd overall selection in the second round while Reggie Bird was selected by the Atlanta Hawks with the 55th overall selection in the fourth round. was selected in the  NBA Draft by the   with the  overall selection in the  round while   was selected by the   with the  overall selection in the  round.
147 seattle Ted Manakas was also selected by the Hawks with the 36th overall selection in the third round of the 1973 NBA Draft. was also selected by the  with the  overall selection in the  round of the  NBA Draft.
148 seattle The "1969–70 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 3rd season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the NBA. The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the .
149 seattle After the resignation of Al Bianchi, Lenny Wilkens took the role of player-coach and led the team to a 36–46 record, a six win improvement over their previous season and 3 games behind the Chicago Bulls, who got the last playoff spot in the Western Division. After the resignation of  ,   took the role of player-coach and led the team to a – record, a  win improvement over their previous season and  games behind the  , who got the last playoff spot in the  .
150 seattle Wilkens led the league in assists with 9.1 apg. led the league in assists with  apg.
151 seattle The "1970–71 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 4th season in the of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA). The "–   season" was the  season in the of the   in the    ().
152 seattle In their second season with Lenny Wilkens as head coach, the Sonics finished in 8th place in the Western Conference with a 38–44 record. In their  season with   as head coach, the  finished in  place in the   with a – record.
153 seattle Trouble arose with the injury of top scorer Bob Rule, who tore his achilles tendon three games into the season during a match against the Portland Trail Blazers and lost him for the remainder of the season. Trouble arose with the injury of top scorer  , who tore his achilles tendon  games into the season during a match against the    and lost him for the remainder of the season.
154 seattle Spencer Haywood was selected in the second round by the Buffalo Braves although he already played in the NBA with the Seattle SuperSonics in the previous season. was selected in the  round by the   although he already played in the  with the   in the previous season.
155 seattle He left college basketball in 1969 with two years remaining in his college eligibility. He left college basketball in  with   remaining in his college eligibility.
156 seattle At that time, the NBA prohibited the drafting or signing of a player before his college class had graduated. At that time, the  prohibited the drafting or signing of a player before his college class had graduated.
157 seattle He then played in the ABA with the Denver Rockets for a season before controversially signed by the Sonics. He then played in the  with the   for a season before controversially signed by the .
158 seattle The league and the other NBA teams opposed the move and argued Haywood should be prohibited to join and play with the Sonics. The league and the other  teams opposed the move and argued  should be prohibited to join and play with the .
159 seattle This led to a court case between the NBA against the Sonics and Haywood. This led to a court case between the  against the  and .
160 seattle He argued that he should be allowed to play because he was a "hardship case", due to his position as the sole wage earner in his family. He argued that he should be allowed to play because he was a "hardship case", due to his position as the sole wage earner in his family.
161 seattle He then won the case and was allowed to play late in the 1970–71 season. He then won the case and was allowed to play late in the – season.
162 seattle This led to the NBA allowing college underclassmen to enter the draft provided they could give evidence of "hardship". This led to the  allowing college underclassmen to enter the draft provided they could give evidence of "hardship".
163 seattle With the existing rules, Haywood was eligible for this year's draft, when his college class graduated. With the existing rules,  was eligible for  's draft, when his college class graduated.
164 seattle The Braves used one of their three second-round picks to select him, hoping that they would win the rights to sign him. The  used  of their  second-round picks to select him, hoping that they would win the rights to sign him.
165 seattle However, he remained with the Sonics and never played for the Braves. However, he remained with the  and never played for the .
166 seattle The "1971–72 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 5th season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA). The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
167 seattle In their third season with Lenny Wilkens as head coach, the Sonics finished the regular season in sixth place in the Western Conference with a 47–35 record, their first winning record in franchise history. In their  season with   as head coach, the  finished the regular season in  place in the   with a – record, their  winning record in franchise history.
168 seattle Wilkens quit as head coach at the end of the season  and was replaced by former Dallas Chaparrals coach Tom Nissalke. quit as head coach at the end of the season  and was replaced by former   coach  .
169 seattle With the sixth overall pick in the 1971 NBA Draft, Seattle selected Fred Brown from the University of Iowa. With the  overall pick in the   Draft,  selected   from the   .
170 seattle After months of negotiation (the Kentucky Colonels of the American Basketball Association also selected him in the 1971 ABA Draft), the Sonics signed him to a multi-year contract  Brown would go on to have a career spanning 13 seasons with the SuperSonics. After   negotiation (        also selected him in   ABA Draft),   signed him to a multi-year contract   would go on to have a career spanning  seasons with  Super.
171 seattle August 23: Guard Lenny Wilkens and forward Barry Clemens obtained from the Seattle Supersonics in exchange for guard Butch Beard. : Guard   and forward   obtained from the   in exchange for guard  .
172 seattle Milwaukee got another huge year from Jabbar, who looked again to be the NBA's top player. got another huge  from , who looked again to be the 's top player.
173 seattle His 30.2 points per game was second in the league, and he was fourth in NBA rebounds. His  points per game was  in the league, and he was  in  rebounds.
174 seattle Only one player, Kansas City's desperate and great Nate Archibald, scored more points. Only  player,  's desperate and great  , scored more points.
175 seattle Only two, Archibald and Seattle's controversial Spencer Haywood, tried more shots. Only ,  and 's controversial  , tried more shots.
176 seattle But Jabbar sank 55% of his shots, tops among high-scoring NBA shooters, and likely again blocked more shots than any big man in the league. But  sank 55% of his shots, tops among high-scoring  shooters, and likely again blocked more shots than any big man in the league.
177 seattle The seven footer also added five assists per game. The  footer also added  assists per game.
178 seattle He was the total package. He was the total package.
179 seattle A balanced cast of Bucks supported Jabbar en route to another 60-win campaign, their third straight. A balanced cast of Bucks supported  en route to another 60-win campaign, their  straight.
180 seattle But both teams were showing some gray streaks as West, Chamberlain, and Oscar Robertson, all all-time greats, were each clearly approaching the end of remarkable careers. But both teams were showing some gray streaks as West, , and  , all all-time greats, were each clearly approaching the end of remarkable careers.
181 seattle The three 60-win monsters drew most of the attention as playoff time arrived, which again rigidly followed the NBA's four divisions. The  60-win monsters drew most of the attention as playoff time arrived, which again rigidly followed the 's  divisions.
182 seattle All of the NBA's eight winning teams neatly made the field. All of the 's  winning teams neatly made the field.
183 seattle The Sonics made only one trade during the offseason that sent All-Star Butch Beard to the Golden State Warriors and brought back a member of the original SuperSonics team, Mahdi Abdul-Rahman (previously known as Walt Hazzard) to Seattle. The  made only  trade during the offseason that sent    to the    and brought back a member of the original Super team,   ( known as  ) to .
184 seattle The "1973–74 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 7th season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA). The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
185 seattle Following the resignation of Lenny Wilkens as a head coach after the 1971–72 season and a poor campaign in the 1972–73 season that saw the departure of general manager Bob Houbregs, the Sonics hired Boston Celtics' stalwart Bill Russell as head coach and general manager. Following the resignation of   as a head coach after the – season and a poor campaign in the 19– season that saw the departure of general manager  , the  hired  ' stalwart   as head coach and general manager.
186 seattle With Russell at the helm, the team finished in 6th place in the Western Conference with a 36–46 record. With  at the helm, the team finished in  place in the   with a – record.
187 seattle The Sonics' home court, Seattle Center Coliseum, was the venue for the 1974 NBA All-Star Game. The Sonics' home court,   , was the venue for the   All-Star Game.
188 seattle The Warriors had a first round bye. The Warriors had a  round bye.
189 seattle (1) "Golden State Warriors" vs. (4) Seattle SuperSonics: "Warriors win series 4-2" (1) "Golden State Warriors" vs. (2) Chicago Bulls: "Warriors win series 4-3" (E1) Washington Bullets vs. (W1) "Golden State Warriors": "Warriors win series 4-0" () "Golden State Warriors" vs. ()  : "Warriors win series -" () "Golden State Warriors" vs. ()  : "Warriors win series -3" (E)  Bullets vs. (W) "Golden State Warriors": "Warriors win series -0"
190 seattle In the playoffs, the Warriors got to the Western Conference Finals by beating the Seattle SuperSonics in six games. In the playoffs, the Warriors got to the    by beating the   in  games.
191 seattle In the Western Finals, the Warriors looked like they were about to lose to former teammate Nate Thurmond. In the  , the Warriors looked like they were about to lose to former teammate  .
192 seattle The Warriors found themselves down against the Chicago Bulls 3 games to 2. The Warriors rallied to win Game 6 in Chicago and took the series with an 83–79 Game 7 triumph in Oakland. The Warriors found themselves down against the    games to .The Warriors rallied to win Game  in  and took the series with an – Game  triumph in .
193 seattle In the NBA Finals, the Warriors faced off against the Washington Bullets. In the  Finals, the Warriors faced off against the  Bullets.
194 seattle The Warriors took the series in four straight games, including 1-point wins in Games 2 and 4. Rick Barry was named the series MVP. The Warriors took the series in  straight games, including 1-point wins in Games  and .  was named the series MVP.
195 seattle Seven NBA teams out of 17 finished over .500, teams out of  finished over ,
196 seattle but three teams, New York, Cleveland and Detroit, also had 40-42 records. but  teams,  ,  and , also had  records.
197 seattle Boston drew a young 41-41 Houston team who had just won their first playoff series in franchise history against the Knicks 2-1. drew a young   team who had just won their  playoff series in franchise history against the  .
198 seattle The Rockets had 20-point scorers Calvin Murphy and Rudy T. but little rebounding, and the veteran Celtics got past the Rockets 4-1 and into the Conference Finals once again. The  had 20-point scorers   and   but little rebounding, and the veteran Celtics got  the   and into the    again.
199 seattle The much tougher East bracket was Washington, who had the same record Boston had, against the tough Buffalo Braves. The much tougher East bracket was , who had the same record  had, against the tough  .
200 seattle Hayes vs. MacAdoo was the marquee matchup. vs.  was the marquee matchup.
201 seattle But the Braves, who had traded Bob Kauffman, did not not have the help for their star. But the , who had traded  , did not not have the help for their star.
202 seattle Despite that, the series went the full seven in impressive fashion before the Bullets won to advance. Despite that, the series went the full  in impressive fashion before the Bullets won to advance.
203 seattle Randy Smith played well in place of Ernie D, but not enough to turn the series the other way. played well in place of  , but not enough to turn the series the other way.
204 seattle Out West, Golden State, still under the radar with many, met a solid Seattle team. Out West,  , still under the radar with many, met a solid  team.
205 seattle Spencer Haywood, their outspoken star, struggled with illnesses much of this year. , their outspoken star, struggled with illnesses much of  .
206 seattle Rookie center Tom Burleson and bombing guard Fred Brown picked up Haywood's slack with 20-point averages from the passes of guard Slick Watts, their first defender. Rookie center   and bombing guard   picked up 's slack with 20-point averages from the passes of guard  , their  defender.
207 seattle But a 124-100 wipeout loss in Game Five put the writing on the wall as the Warriors advanced. But a  wipeout loss in Game  put the writing on the wall as the Warriors advanced.
208 seattle Chicago drew a very good Kansas City team that had bounced back from the bad Bob Cousy days under coach Phil Johnson. drew a very good   team that had bounced back from the bad    under coach  .
209 seattle Nate Archibald was their star at just 5'11. was their star at just .
210 seattle But the Bulls guards hounded Nate the Skate to just 36% shooting in the series. But the Bulls guards hounded  the Skate to just 36% shooting in the series.
211 seattle Bob Love also schooled rookie forward Scott Wedman as the Bulls won 4-2. also schooled rookie forward   as the  won .
212 seattle The anticipated monster clash of Boston-Washington was set, with DC native Red Auerbach in the shadows. The anticipated monster clash of  was set, with DC native Red Auerbach in the shadows.
213 seattle Cowens and Hayes each turned in very strong performances, but did not guard each other. and  each turned in very strong performances, but did not guard each other.
214 seattle Havlicek and White joined Cowens as 20-point Celtic scorers. and  joined  as 20-point Celtic scorers.
215 seattle But somehow the Celtics lost three of the first four ballgames anyway. But somehow the  lost  of the   ballgames anyway.
216 seattle The inside defense of the Bullets, combined with plenty of free throws, allowed Washington to send the vaunted world champions home. The inside defense of the , combined with plenty of free throws, allowed  to send the vaunted world champions home.
217 seattle For some, this was a title in itself. For some, this was a title in itself.
218 seattle But there was still one more round to play. But there was still  more round to play.
219 seattle Most experts now expected Chicago to finally get their hard-earned shot in a classic offense vs. defense series against Golden State. Most experts  expected  to finally get their hard-earned shot in a classic offense vs. defense series against Golden State.
220 seattle Plus, Thurmond was seeking revenge against his old team, which now had 6'10 Cliff Ray, a former Bull and a lesser center, in his former Warrior center spot. Plus,  was seeking revenge against his old team, which  had   , a former  and a lesser center, in his former  center spot.
221 seattle The series would be a full seven-game barnburner. The series would be a full seven-game barnburner.
222 seattle The Bulls used a 90-89 Game Two win to start a 2-1 advantage. The  used a  Game  win to start a  advantage.
223 seattle Golden State bounced back to win Game 4  but the Bulls won Game 5, making it 3-2. Golden State bounced back to win Game   but the  won Game , making it .
224 seattle The Warriors cranked it up to win Game Six 86-72 in Chicago to force Game Seven at home. The Warriors cranked it up to win Game   in  to force Game  at home.
225 seattle Bulls coach, Dick Motta, was giving most of the center minutes to rebounder Tom Boerwinkle, not Thurmond. Bulls coach,  , was giving most of the center  to rebounder  , not .
226 seattle With no bench scoring and Thurmond playing an average of just 20 minutes per game, The Warriors wiggled off the hook to win the game 83-79 and the series, 4-3. With no bench scoring and  playing an average of just   per game, The Warriors wiggled off the hook to win the game  and the series, .
227 seattle It was a hard loss for Bulls fans who had pulled for their team all decade. It was a hard loss for  fans who had pulled for their team all .
228 seattle The "1974–75 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 8th season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA). The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
229 seattle In their second season with Bill Russell as head coach and with half a roster comprised by rookies, the SuperSonics finished the regular season in 4th place in the Western Conference with a 43–39 record and reached the playoffs for the first time in franchise history. In their  season with   as head coach and with half a roster comprised by rookies, the  finished the regular season in  place in the   with a – record and reached the playoffs for the  time in franchise history.
230 seattle After defeating the Detroit Pistons in 3 games in the first round in a best-of-five series, the team fell to the future champions Golden State Warriors in 6 games. After defeating    in  games in   round in a best-of-five series,  team fell to   champions    in  games.
231 seattle Gus Williams, the 20th pick, joined the Seattle SuperSonics after two seasons with the Golden State Warriors. , the  pick, joined the   after  seasons with the   .
232 seattle He then won the NBA championship with the Sonics in 1979. He then won the  championship with the  in .
233 seattle He was also selected to two All-NBA Team and two All-Star Games. He was also selected to    and   .
234 seattle World B. Free (then known as Lloyd Free), the 23rd pick, played for five teams in his 13 year career and was selected to one All-NBA Team and one All-Star Game. (then known as  ), the  pick, played for  teams in his   career and was selected to    and   .
235 seattle Dan Roundfield, the 28th pick, was also drafted in the 1975 ABA Draft. , the  pick, was also drafted in the  ABA Draft.
236 seattle He opted to joined the ABA with the Indiana Pacers before moving to the NBA in 1976. He opted to joined the  with the   before moving to the  in .
237 seattle His achievements include include one All-NBA Team selection, three NBA All-Star Game selections, three NBA All-Star Game selections and four NBA All-Defensive Team selections. His achievements include include    selection,   All-Star Game selections,   All-Star Game selections and   All-Defensive  selections.
238 seattle Alvan Adams from the University of Oklahoma, who went on to win the Rookie of the Year Award in his first season, was selected 4th by the Phoenix Suns. from    , who went on to win  Rookie    Award in his  season, was selected  by   .
239 seattle Adams and 6th pick Lionel Hollins are the only other players from this draft who was selected to an All-Star Game. and  pick   are the only other players from this draft who was selected to an  .
240 seattle After retiring as a player, Hollins went on to have a coaching career. After retiring as a player,  went on to have a coaching career.
241 seattle He was twice named as the interim head coach for the Vancouver/Memphis Grizzlies in 1999 and 2004 before becoming a permanent head coach in 2009. He was twice named as the interim head coach for the   in  and   becoming a permanent head coach in .
242 seattle The Golden State Warriors last made the NBA Finals in , when they were still in San Francisco. The    last made the  Finals in , when they were still in  .
243 seattle In the years since, they moved to Oakland, briefly lost Rick Barry to the American Basketball Association, and named Warriors great Al Attles as head coach. In   since, y moved to , briefly lost   to    , and named Warriors great   as head coach.
244 seattle Before the start of the 1974–75 season they traded future Hall of Famer Nate Thurmond to the Chicago Bulls for young center Clifford Ray. Before the start of the – season they traded  Hall of    to the   for young center  .
245 seattle They also drafted Jamaal Wilkes, then known as Keith Wilkes, out of UCLA. They also drafted  , then known as  , out of .
246 seattle With Barry as the offensive leader, and with Attles using a team approach to coaching, the Warriors managed to finish the season atop the Western Conference with 48 wins. With  as the offensive leader, and with  using a team approach to coaching, the Warriors managed to finish the season atop the Western Conference with  wins.
247 seattle In the playoffs, they defeated the Seattle SuperSonics in six games, then eliminated Thurmond and the Bulls in seven games to advance to the Finals. In the playoffs, they defeated the   in  games, then eliminated  and the  in  games to advance to the Finals.
248 seattle The "1975–76 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 9th season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA). The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
249 seattle The SuperSonics finished the season in second place in the Western Conference with a 43–39 record, the same as the previous year and reached the playoffs for a second consecutive season, where they lost to the Phoenix Suns in the Conference Semifinals in six games. The  finished  seson in  plce in    with  – record,  sme s    nd reched  plyoffs for   consecutive seson, where y lost to    in   Semifinls in  gmes.
250 seattle On October 14 the Chicago Bulls came to Salt Lake City to face the Stars. On   the   came to    to face the Stars.
251 seattle The game went into overtime and the Bulls pulled it out, 122-119. The game went into overtime and the  pulled it out, .
252 seattle In a sign of what was to come for the Stars later in the season, the Bulls later filed a lawsuit against the Stars, claiming that Utah failed to pay the Bulls a guaranteed $17,000 for playing the game at the Salt Palace. In a sign of what was to come for the Stars later in the season, the  later filed a lawsuit against the Stars, claiming that  failed to pay the  a guaranteed $17,000 for playing the game at the Salt Palace.
253 seattle The next day, on October 15, the Stars went on the road to face the Seattle SuperSonics again, this time in Seattle. , on  , the Stars went on the road to face the   again, this time in .
254 seattle John Roche scored 33 points for the Stars as Utah won 108-98. scored  points for the    won .
255 seattle John Lucas from the University of Maryland was selected first overall by the Houston Rockets. from the    was selected  overall by the  .
256 seattle Adrian Dantley from the University of Notre Dame, who went on to win the Rookie of the Year Award in his first season, was selected 6th by the Buffalo Braves. from     , who went on to win  Rookie    Award in his  season, was selected  by   .
257 seattle Four players from this draft, Dantley, 8th pick Robert Parish, 23rd pick Alex English and 29th pick Dennis Johnson, have been inducted to the Basketball Hall of Fame. players from this draft, ,  pick  ,  pick   and  pick  , have been inducted to the Basketball Hall of Fame.
258 seattle Parish was also named to the list of the 50 Greatest Players in NBA History announced at the league's 50th anniversary in 1996. Parish was also named to the list of the  Greatest Players in  History announced at the league's th anniversary in .
259 seattle Dantley was selectod to two All-NBA Teams and six All-Star Games. was selectod to    and   .
260 seattle Parish won three NBA championships with the Boston Celtics in the 1980s. Parish won   championships with    in  .
261 seattle Later in his career, he added another championship in 1997 with the Chicago Bulls. Later in his career, he added another championship in  with the  .
262 seattle His other achievements include two All-NBA Team selections and nine All-Star Game selections. His other achievements include    selections and    selections.
263 seattle English's achievements include three All-NBA Team selections and eight All-Star Game selections. 's achievements include    selections and    selections.
264 seattle Johnson won the NBA championships, along with the Finals Most Valuable Player Award, with the Seattle SuperSonics in 1979. won the  championships, along with the Finals Most Valuable Player Award, with the   in .
265 seattle He then won two other championships with the Celtics in the 1980s. He n won  or championships with   in  .
266 seattle He was selected to two All-NBA Teams, five All-Star Games and nine All-Defensive Teams. He was selected to   ,    and   .
267 seattle With Adams fortifying the center position, and with new addition Paul Westphal and Dick Van Arsdale providing the scoring punch, the Suns reached the playoffs for only the second time, finishing with 42 wins. With  fortifying the center position, and with new addition   and    providing the scoring punch, the  reached the playoffs for only the  time, finishing with  wins.
268 seattle The Suns defeated the Seattle SuperSonics in six games of the conference semifinals, before achieving a major upset in dethroning the previous year's champions the Golden State Warriors in seven games. The  defeated    in  games of  conference semifinals, before achieving a major upset in dethroning   's champions     in  games.
269 seattle The Suns made it to their first NBA Finals. The  made it to their  NBA Finals.
270 seattle (1) "Golden State Warriors", (2) "Seattle SuperSonics" & (3) "Phoenix Suns" have first round byes. () "Golden State Warriors", () " " & () " " have  round byes.
271 seattle Kent Benson from Indiana University was selected first overall by the Milwaukee Bucks. from   was selected  overall by the  .
272 seattle Walter Davis from the University of North Carolina, who went on to win the Rookie of the Year Award in his first season, was selected fifth by the Phoenix Suns. from     , who went on to win  Rookie    Award in his  season, was selected  by   .
273 seattle Davis was also selected to both the All-NBA Team and the All-Star Game in his first season. was also selected to both the   and the   in his  season.
274 seattle He collected a total of six All-NBA Team selections and two All-Star Game selections. He collected a total of    selections and    selections.
275 seattle Three other players from this draft, second pick Otis Birdsong, third pick Marques Johnson and seventh pick Bernard King, were also selected to both the All-NBA Team and the All-Star Game. other players from this draft,  pick  ,  pick   and  pick  , were also selected to both the   and the  .
276 seattle Birdsong was selected to four All-NBA Teams and one All-Star Game; Johnson was selected to five All-NBA Teams and three All-Star Games; and King was selected to four All-NBA Teams and four All-Star Games. was selected to    and   ;  was selected to    and   s; and King was selected to    and   s.
277 seattle Jack Sikma, the eight pick, won the NBA championship with the Seattle SuperSonics in 1979 and was selected to seven consecutive All-Star Games. , the  pick, won the  championship with the   in  and was selected to  consecutive  .
278 seattle Rickey Green, the 16th pick, Norm Nixon, the 22nd pick, and Eddie Johnson, the 39th pick, are the only other players from this draft who were selected to an All-Star Game. , the  pick,  , the  pick, and  , the  pick, are the only other players from this draft who were selected to an  .
279 seattle Two players drafted went on to have coaching careers in the NBA: 33rd pick Eddie Jordan and 53rd pick John Kuester. players drafted went on to have coaching careers in the :  pick   and  pick  .
280 seattle Jordan has coached three teams in nine seasons, including five seasons with the Washington Wizards. has coached  teams in  seasons, including  seasons with the  .
281 seattle The Blazers won 58 games in the 1977-78 NBA season, but Bill Walton suffered the first of a series of devastating foot injuries late in the season and was lost for much of the year. The Blazers won  games in    season, but   suffered   of a series of devastating foot injuries late in  season and was lost for much of  .
282 seattle Walton won the league's MVP, but the Blazers missed his leadership and savvy, losing in six games of the conference finals to the Seattle SuperSonics. won the league's MVP, but the  missed his leadership and savvy, losing in  games of the conference finals to the  .
283 seattle The Sonics made the Finals the next two seasons, winning in 1979. The  made the Finals the next  seasons, winning in .
284 seattle The Blazers would not make the finals again until 1990. The Blazers would not make the finals again until .
285 seattle As for Walton, he forced to sit the 1978-79 season after his request for a trade was denied, citing unethical treatment of player injuries by the Blazers' front office. As for , he forced to sit the  season after his request for a trade was denied, citing unethical treatment of player injuries by the Blazers' front office.
286 seattle Walton signed with the Clippers the next season, but only made sporadic appearances for the next six years. signed with     season, but only made sporadic appearances for    .
287 seattle His career would be revived in Boston, winning another championship in  1986 while winning the NBA Sixth Man of the Year. His career would be revived in , winning anor championship in   while winning    Man of  .
288 seattle The "1977–78 NBA season" was the 32nd season of the National Basketball Association. The "–  season" was the  season of the   .
289 seattle The season ended with the Washington Bullets winning the NBA Championship, beating the Seattle SuperSonics 4 games to 3 in the NBA Finals. The season ended with the  Bullets winning the  Championship, beating the    games to  in the  Finals.
290 seattle The "1977–78" season was the eighth season of the Portland Trail Blazers in the National Basketball Association (NBA). The "–" season was the  season of the  Trail Blazers in the    ().
291 seattle Fresh off their first NBA Championship win the previous season, the Blazers led the league with a franchise-best 58–24 record, earning a first-round bye in the 1978 NBA Playoffs. Fresh off their    win the previous season, the Blazers led the league with a franchise-best – record, earning a -round bye in the   Playoffs.
292 seattle However, they were defeated by the eventual Western Conference champion Seattle SuperSonics four games to two. However, they were defeated by the eventual   champion    games to .
293 seattle The "1977–78 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 11th season of the franchise in the National Basketball Association (NBA). The "–   season" was the  season of the franchise in the    ().
294 seattle With a disappointing 5–17 start, the Sonics replaced coach Bob Hopkins with future Hall of Famer Lenny Wilkens, who led the team to a 47–35 finish. With a disappointing – start, the  replaced coach   with  Hall of   , who led the team to a –3 finish.
295 seattle After upsetting the defending champions Portland Trail Blazers in the Western Conference Semifinals, the Sonics made their first trip to the NBA Finals, where they fell to the Washington Bullets in 7 games. After upsetting the defending champions    in the   , the  made their  trip to the  Finals, where they fell to the  Bullets in  games.
296 seattle (1) Philadelphia 76ers vs. (3) "Washington Bullets": "Bullets win series 4-2" After being swept in their previous trip to the NBA Finals, the Bullets lost Game 1 on the road against the Seattle SuperSonics, and a 19-point lead vanished in the process. ()  76ers vs. () "Washington Bullets": "Bullets win series " After being swept in their previous trip to the  Finals, the Bullets lost Game  on the road against the  , and a 9-point lead vanished in the process.
297 seattle In Game 4, the Bullets rose to the occasion beating the Sonics 120-116 to even the series at 2 games apiece. In Game , the Bullets rose to the occasion beating the   to even the series at  games apiece.
298 seattle After losing Game 5 in Seattle, the Bullets kept their hopes alive with a dominating 117-82 win at the Capital Centre. After losing Game  in , the  kept their hopes alive with a dominating  win at the Capital Centre.
299 seattle Game 7 returned to Seattle and the Bullets were a heavy underdog. Game  returned to  and the  were a heavy underdog.
300 seattle Kevin Grevey suffered a sprained wrist above his shooting hand, and Bob Dandridge was forced to see some action at guard. suffered a sprained wrist above his shooting hand, and   was forced to see some action at guard.
301 seattle Dandridge would play strongly and scored 19 points to tie with Charles Johnson, who hit a half court shot at the end of the 3rd quarter, for the team high. would play strongly and scored  points to tie with  , who hit a half court shot at      , for  team high.
302 seattle Wes Unseld scored 15 points while pulling down 9 rebounds as the Bullets emerged with a 105-99 victory to win their first NBA Championship. scored  points while pulling down  rebounds as the Bullets emerged with a 105- victory to win their  NBA Championship.
303 seattle With 90 seconds left, Seattle whittled the lead from 11 points down to four, but Mitch Kupchak came up with a three-point play. With   left,  whittled the lead from  points down to , but   came up with a three-point play.
304 seattle Fred Brown, who finished with 21 points off the bench, hit a short jumper, then Paul Silas got a tip-in to cut it to 101-99. , who finished with  points off the bench, hit a short jumper, then   got a tip-in to cut it to .
305 seattle Silas then fouled Wes Unseld, a 55-percent shooter from the line during the playoffs. then fouled  , a 55-percent shooter from the line during the playoffs.
306 seattle He hit two free throws, and moments later Washington sealed it with a Bob Dandridge dunk, 105-99. He hit  free throws, and moments later  sealed it with a   dunk, .
307 seattle The Bullets, behind Kevin Grevey's 27 and Elvin Hayes's 21 points, held a 19-point lead in the fourth quarter at the Seattle Center Coliseum. The , behind  's  and  's  points, held a 19-point lead in    at    .
308 seattle But, the Sonics staged a comeback in front of the home crowd, led by "instant offense" guard Fred Brown. But, the  staged a comeback in front of the home crowd, led by "instant offense" guard  .
309 seattle Brown scored 16 points in the last nine minutes to finish with 32 and give the SuperSonics the win. scored  points in     to finish with  and give    win.
310 seattle The "1978 NBA World Championship Series" was the championship round of the 1977-78 NBA season. The "    " was the championship round of the   season.
311 seattle The Seattle SuperSonics had a disappointing start to the season, going 5–17 to begin with. The   had a disappointing start to the season, going – to begin with.
312 seattle Bob Hopkins, who replaced former Boston Celtics center Bill Russell as coach, was fired and Lenny Wilkens returned for a second tour of duty. , who replced former   center   s coch, ws fired nd   returned for   tour of duty.
313 seattle The Sonics were led by center Jack Sikma, forwards Fred Brown, Paul Silas and John Johnson, and guards Dennis Johnson and Gus Williams. The  were led by center  , forwards  ,   and  son, and guards  son and  .
314 seattle With Wilkens' experience being a key factor, the Sonics turned their season around, finishing with 47 wins and the fourth seed in the West. With ' experience being a key factor, the  turned their season around, finishing with  wins and the  seed in the West.
315 seattle In the playoffs, they defeated the Los Angeles Lakers in a three-game miniseries, then upset the top-seeded and defending champion Portland Trail Blazers in six games, before announcing their finals debut with a six-game win over the Denver Nuggets. In the playoffs, they defeated the    in a three-game miniseries, then upset the top-seeded and defending champion    in  games, before announcing their finals debut with a -game win over the  .
316 seattle The "1978 NBA Playoffs" was the postseason tournament of the National Basketball Association's 1977-78 season. The " NBA Playoffs" was the postseason tournament of the   's  season.
317 seattle The tournament concluded with the Eastern Conference champion Washington Bullets defeating the Western Conference champion Seattle SuperSonics 4 games to 3 in the NBA Finals. The tournament concluded with the Eastern  champion  Bullets defeating the   champion    games to  in the  Finals.
318 seattle Wes Unseld was named NBA Finals MVP. was named  Finals MVP.
319 seattle To date, it remains the only NBA title that the Washington Bullets have ever won. To date, it remains the only  title that the  Bullets have ever won.
320 seattle It was the third NBA Finals appearance and first title for the Bullets, founded in 1961. It was the   Finals appearance and  title for the , founded in .
321 seattle The Sonics made the Finals for the first time in their 11-year existence. The  made the Finals for the  time in their  existence.
322 seattle This would be the first of two straight meetings in the Finals between the Bullets and Sonics, with Seattle winning the title the next year. This would be   of  straight meetings in  Finals between  Bullets and , with  winning  title   .
323 seattle The "1978&ndash;79 Phoenix Suns season" was the 11th season for the Phoenix Suns of the National Basketball Association and the first time they reached the 50-win mark to end the regular season. The "&ndash;   season" was the  season for the   of the    and the  time they reached the 50-win mark to end the regular season.
324 seattle The team repeated a second place finish in an expanded Pacific division and the Western Conference's second-best record, thus earning a spot in the playoffs, the franchise's first time extending the season in back-to-back seasons. The tem repeted   plce finish in n expnded Pcific division nd the  's -best record, thus erning  spot in the plyoffs, the frnchise's  time extending the seson in bck-to-bck sesons.
325 seattle For the first time since the '75&ndash;'76 team, the Suns returned to the Western Conference Finals, before being dispatched by Pacific division champion Seattle in seven games. For   time since  &ndash;76 team,   returned to    , before being dispatched by  division champion  in  games.
326 seattle The Suns were led by head coach John MacLeod and played all home games in Arizona Veterans Memorial Coliseum. The  were led by head coach   and played all home games in  Veterans Memorial Coliseum.
327 seattle (1) "Washington Bullets" vs. (2) San Antonio Spurs: "Bullets win series 4-3" The triumph would set up a rematch with the Seattle SuperSonics in the NBA Finals. () " Bullets" vs. ()   : "Bullets win series " The triumph would set up a rematch with the   in the  Finals.
328 seattle In the Finals, the Bullets would squeak out a close victory in Game 1 by a score of 99-97. In the Finals, the  would squeak out a close victory in Game  by a  of .
329 seattle However, the Sonics would rally to win the next 4 and take the series in 5 games. However, the  would rally to win the next  and take the series in  games.
330 seattle The Sonics won a close one in OT 114–112, staving off a late Bullets comeback behind 36 points by Gus Williams and 32 by Dennis Johnson. The  won a close  in OT –, staving off a late  comeback behind  points by   and  by  .
331 seattle Williams and Johnson dominated the Bullets' guards all series, as they were plagued by poor shooting. and  dominated the Bullets' guards all series, as they were plagued by poor shooting.
332 seattle Johnson also had four blocks in the game, the last on Kevin Grevey with 4 seconds left to ensure the Seattle victory. also had  blocks in the game, the last on   with   left to ensure the  victory.
333 seattle Seattle dominated this game, which wasn't as close as the final margin indicated. dominated this game, which wasn't as close as the final margin indicated.
334 seattle Gus Williams scored 31 points, Jack Sikma had 21, and Dennis Johnson had a fine all-around game with 17 points, 9 rebounds, and two blocked shots. scored  points,   had , and   had a fine all-around game with  points,  rebounds, and  blocked shots.
335 seattle The Bullets controlled the game and led by 18 in the fourth, but Seattle mounted a furious comeback to tie it at 97. Larry Wright, who had 26 points off the bench, drove to the basket as time ran down and had his shot blocked by Dennis Johnson, but the referees called a foul on Johnson, sending Wright to the line with one second left. The  controlled the game and led by  in the , but  mounted a furious comeback to tie it at . , who had  points off the bench, drove to the basket as time ran down and had his shot blocked by  , but the referees called a foul on , sending  to the line with   left.
336 seattle Wright hit two of three foul shots (NBA rules at the time awarded an extra free throw attempt when a team was in the penalty foul situation) to win the game. hit  of  foul shots (NBA rules at the time awarded an extra free throw attempt when a team was in the penalty foul situation) to win the game.
337 seattle This was a rematch of the 1978 NBA Finals, which the Bullets won 4–3. This was a rematch of the   Finals, which the Bullets won –.
338 seattle Seattle made a key offseason trade sending Marvin Webster to the New York Knicks for Lonnie Shelton. made a key offseason trade sending   to the    for  .
339 seattle Other than that, both teams' rosters stayed virtually intact. Other than that, both teams' rosters stayed virtually intact.
340 seattle Unlike the previous year, both teams finished 1-2 in the NBA, with the Bullets topping the league at 54 wins; the Sonics with 52 wins. Unlike   , both teams finished  in  , with   topping  league at  wins;   with  wins.
341 seattle In the playoffs, Seattle defeated the Los Angeles Lakers 4–1 and the Phoenix Suns 4–3, while Washington eliminated the Atlanta Hawks 4–3 and the San Antonio Spurs 4–1. In the playoffs,  defeated the    – and the   –, while  eliminated the   – and the    –.
342 seattle Both earned a first-round bye. Both earned a first-round bye.
343 seattle The "1979 NBA Playoffs" was the postseason tournament of the National Basketball Association's 1978-79 season. The " NBA Playoffs" was the postseason tournament of the   's  season.
344 seattle The tournament concluded with the Western Conference champion Seattle SuperSonics defeating the Eastern Conference champion Washington Bullets 4 games to 1 in the NBA Finals. The tournament concluded with the   champion   defeating the Eastern  champion    games to  in the  Finals.
345 seattle The Sonics earned their first (and as of 2012, only) NBA title. The  earned their  (and as of , only) NBA title.
346 seattle Dennis Johnson was named NBA Finals MVP. was named  Finals MVP.
347 seattle The Lakers earned the top pick of the 1979 NBA Draft (traded as compensation by the New Orleans Jazz after signing Gail Goodrich in 1976) and selected Magic Johnson from Michigan State. The  earned the top pick of the  NBA Draft (traded as compensation by the    after signing   in ) and selected   from  State.
348 seattle While Magic dazzled in his rookie season, Kareem would enjoy an MVP campaign in the Lakers' 60–22 regular season. While Magic dazzled in his rookie season,  would enjoy an MVP campaign in the  – regular season.
349 seattle In the playoffs, the Lakers eliminated the Phoenix Suns and erstwhile defending champions Seattle SuperSonics in a pair of five-game series to advance to the NBA Finals. In the playoffs, the  eliminated the   and erstwhile defending champions   in a pair of five-game series to advance to the  Finals.
350 seattle The "1981-82 NBA season" was the Spurs' 6th season in the NBA and 15th season as a franchise. The "  season" was the '  season in the  and  season as a franchise.
351 seattle George Gervin was the winner of a fourth scoring title in five years with 32.3 points per game. was the winner of a  scoring title in   with  points per game.
352 seattle The Spurs won their second straight division title with a record of 48-34. The  won their  straight division title with a record of .
353 seattle In the playoffs the Spurs beat the Seattle Supersonics in 5 games. In the playoffs the  beat the   in  games.
354 seattle In the Western Finals, the Spurs would be swept in 4 straight by the Los Angeles Lakers. In the  , the Spurs would be swept in  straight by the   .
355 seattle The Spurs had a first round bye. The  had a  round bye.
356 seattle (2) "San Antonio Spurs" vs. (3) Seattle SuperSonics: "Spurs win series 4-1" (1) "Los Angeles Lakers" vs. (2) San Antonio Spurs: "Lakers win series 4-0" () "  " vs. ()  SuperSonics: " win series " () "Los Angeles Lakers" vs. ()   : "Lakers win series 4-0"
357 seattle (4) Seattle SuperSonics vs. (5) "Portland Trail Blazers": "Blazers win series 2–0" (1) "Los Angeles Lakers" vs. (5) Portland Trail Blazers: "Lakers win series 4–1" ()   vs. () " Trail Blazers": "Blazers win series –" () "Los Angeles " vs. ()  Trail Blazers: " win series –"
358 seattle The "1984-85 NBA season" was the Kings 36th season in the NBA and their 13th season in the city of Kansas City. The "  season" was the Kings  season in the  and their  season in the city of  .
359 seattle The Kings finished with a 31-51 record, placing them in sixth place in the Midwest Division, and in a three-way tie for ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference, along with the Seattle SuperSonics and the Los Angeles Clippers. The  finished with a  record, placing them in  place in the  Division, and in a three-way tie for  place in the 's  , along with the   and the   .
360 seattle As a result, the Kings did not qualify for the NBA Playoffs in their final season in Kansas City. As a result, the Kings did not qualify for the  Playoffs in their final season in  .
361 seattle This draft is also known for the number of players who made important contributions to the sport of basketball outside of the court. This draft is also known for the number of players who made important contributions to the sport of basketball outside of the court.
362 seattle For example, Nate McMillan had a highly successful run with the Seattle SuperSonics as a player and then as head coach, and then spent seven seasons as head coach of the Portland Trail Blazers. For example,   had a highly successful run with the   as a player and then as head coach, and then spent  seasons as head coach of the   .
363 seattle Scott Skiles is the current coach of the Milwaukee Bucks and also the first coach to lead the Chicago Bulls to the playoffs in the post-Jordan era. is the  coach of the   and also the  coach to lead the   to the playoffs in the  era.
364 seattle Larry Krystkowiak, a former Bucks head coach, was hired in April 2011 as the new head coach at the University of Utah. , a former Bucks head coach, was hired in   as the new head coach at the   .
365 seattle John Salley won four championship rings with three different NBA teams (Detroit Pistons, Chicago Bulls and Los Angeles Lakers) before becoming one of the hosts of "The Best Damn Sports Show Period" on Fox Sports Network. won  championship rings with  different  teams ( ,   and   ) before becoming  of the hosts of "The Best Damn  Show Period" on   .
366 seattle Jay Bilas is an ESPN college basketball analyst. is an  college basketball analyst.
367 seattle Mark Price served as an assistant coach at Georgia Tech, a shooting consultant with Memphis (one season) and Atlanta (two seasons), a shooting coach for Golden State (one season), and in December 2011 was named Player Development Coach for the Orlando Magic. served as an assistant coach at  , a shooting consultant with  ( season) and  ( seasons), a shooting coach for   ( season), and in   was named Player Development Coach for the  .
368 seattle As for the Rockets, their stay at the top of the Western Conference would only be temporary, as Ralph Sampson fell down with a knee injury that eventually curtailed his career. As for the Rockets, their stay at the top of the   would only be temporary, as   fell down with a knee injury that eventually curtailed his career.
369 seattle The Rockets would only win 42 games, and were bounced out of the playoffs' second round by the Seattle SuperSonics. The  would only win  games, and were bounced out of the playoffs'  round by the  .
370 seattle The 'Twin Towers' were disbanded after Sampson was traded to the Golden State Warriors early in the 1987-88 NBA season. The 'Twin Towers' were disbanded after  was traded to the    early in the   season.
371 seattle The Rockets would not return to the finals until their championship season of . The Rockets would not return to the finals until their championship season of .
372 seattle Thanks to the 1984 trade of Gerald Henderson and the subsequent fall of the Seattle SuperSonics, at the end of the 1985-86 the Celtics owned not only the best team in the NBA but also the second pick in the 1986 NBA Draft. Thanks to the  trade of   and the subsequent  of the  , at the end of the  the  owned not only the best team in the  but also the  pick in the   Draft.
373 seattle The Celtics drafted Len Bias with the pick and had high hopes for the young University of Maryland star. The  drafted   with the pick and had high hopes for the young    star.
374 seattle Fans believed Bias had superstar potential, and that he would be the perfect complement to the aging, but still strong, Celtics. Fans believed Bias had superstar potential, and that he would be the perfect complement to the aging, but still strong, .
375 seattle The hope was that his presence would ensure that the franchise would remain a powerhouse after Bird, McHale and Parish retired. The hope was that his presence would ensure that the franchise would remain a powerhouse after Bird,  and Parish retired.
376 seattle Unfortunately, Bias died 48 hours after he was drafted, after using cocaine at a party and overdosing. Unfortunately,  died   after he was drafted, after using cocaine at a party and overdosing.
377 seattle It would be the first in a long string of bad luck for the Celtics. It would be the  in a long string of bad luck for the .
378 seattle The "1986–87 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 20th season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association. The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the   .
379 seattle Bernie Bickerstaff returned for his second season as head coach of the franchise and, despite little improvement over their previous season's 31–51 record, managed to clinch a spot in the playoffs and reach the Western Conference Finals, losing in four games to the Los Angeles Lakers. returned for his  season as head coach of the franchise and, despite little improvement over their previous season's – record, managed to clinch a spot in the playoffs and reach the   , losing in  games to the   .
380 seattle The NBA's 37th All-Star Game was played on February 8, 1987 at Seattle's Kingdome. The 's    was played on   197 at 's Kingdome.
381 seattle Seattle SuperSonics power forward Tom Chambers was the game's MVP. power forward   was the game's MVP.
382 seattle After being eliminated in the Western Conference Finals a year earlier, the Lakers returned to the NBA Finals and were rewarded with homecourt advantage, besting the Celtics by accumulating a 65-17 record. After being eliminted in the Western Conference Finls  yer erlier, the Lkers returned to the  Finls nd were rewrded with homecourt dvntge, besting the  by ccumulting   record.
383 seattle During the season head coach Pat Riley made an offensive adjustment by assigning guard Magic Johnson as the focal point of the offense, while acquiring Mychal Thompson from the San Antonio Spurs before the trade deadline in a successful effort to lessen center Kareem Abdul-Jabbar's minutes heading into the post-season. During the season head coach   made an offensive adjustment by assigning guard   as the focal point of the offense, while acquiring   from the    before the trade deadline in a successful effort to lessen center  's  heading into the post-season.
384 seattle The Lakers swept the Denver Nuggets, then beat the Golden State Warriors in five, before earning another playoff sweep against the Seattle SuperSonics in the conference finals. The  swept the  , then beat the    in , before earning another playoff sweep against the   in the conference finals.
385 seattle With the well-rested Lakers coming off a four-game sweep of the Seattle SuperSonics and a tired and hobbled Celtic team coming off a grueling seven-game win over the Detroit Pistons, the result was anticlimactic. With the well-rested  coming off a four-game sweep of the   and a tired and hobbled  team coming off a grueling seven-game win over the  , the result was anticlimactic.
386 seattle Magic Johnson led a 126-113 victory with 29 points, 13 assists, eight rebounds and no turnovers. led a  victory with  points,  assists,  rebounds and no turnovers.
387 seattle James Worthy, on the receiving end of many of Johnson's passes, had 33 points and nine rebounds. , on the receiving end of many of 's passes, had  points and  rebounds.
388 seattle The Lakers ran 35 fast breaks in the first two quarters and led by 21 at intermission. The  ran  fast breaks in     and led by  at intermission.
389 seattle Jordan was indisputably great, and Oakley, who led the league in total rebounds (1,066), was outstanding. was indisputably great, and , who led the league in total rebounds (), was outstanding.
390 seattle Still, the Bulls lacked a quality supporting cast. Still, the  lacked a quality supporting cast.
391 seattle They took a major step toward alleviating that problem at the 1987 NBA Draft, when Vice President of Basketball Operations Jerry Krause acquired two players who would be vital cogs in Chicago's future championship machine. They took a major step toward alleviating that problem at the   , when Vice President of Basketball Operations   acquired  players who would be vital cogs in 's  championship machine.
392 seattle With two picks in the top 10, Krause selected Olden Polynice at No. 8 and Horace Grant at No. 10. With  picks in the top ,  selected   at No.  and   at No. .
393 seattle He then traded Polynice and draft considerations to the Seattle SuperSonics for Scottie Pippen, whom the Sonics had grabbed with the fifth pick. He then traded  and draft considerations to the   for  , whom the  had grabbed with the  pick.
394 seattle Oakley and the Los Angeles Clippers' Michael Cage engaged in a nip-and-tuck battle for the league's rebounding title, which came down to the last day of the regular season. and    '   engaged in a nip-and-tuck battle for  league's rebounding title, which came down to    of  regular season.
395 seattle On April 22 against Cleveland, Oakley put the pressure on Cage by pulling down 35 rebounds, the second-highest total in Bulls history behind Tom Boerwinkle's 37 in 1970. On   against ,  put the pressure on Cage by pulling down  rebounds, the second-highest total in  history behind  's  in .
396 seattle Two days later, however, Cage grabbed 30 boards in a game against Seattle, just enough to edge Oakley by the slimmest of margins, 13.03 per game to 13.00. , however,  grabbed  boards in a game against , just enough to edge  by the slimmest of margins,  per game to .
397 seattle Cage played in 10 fewer games than Oakley, however, so Oakley led the NBA in total rebounds for the second consecutive year, with 1,066. Cage played in  fewer games than , however, so  led   in total rebounds for    , with .
398 seattle The "1987–88 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 21st season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA). The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
399 seattle It was Bernie Bickerstaff's first season with a winning percentage above .500, It was  's  season with a winning percentage above ,
400 seattle coaching the Sonics to the 1988 NBA Playoffs where they lost in five games to the Denver Nuggets in the first round. coaching the  to the  NBA Playoffs where they lost in  games to the   in the  round.
401 seattle The Heat were formed and owned by a group headed by Zev Buffman and former NBA player Billy Cunningham. The Heat were formed and owned by a group headed by   and former  player  .
402 seattle Former Detroit Pistons assistant coach Ron Rothstein was hired as the franchise's first head coach. Former   assistant coach   was hired as the franchise's  head coach.
403 seattle The Heat used their first pick to select former third-round pick Arvid Kramer from the Dallas Mavericks. The Heat used their  pick to select former third-round pick   from the  .
404 seattle Prior to the draft, the Heat agreed on a deal to select Kramer, who had not played in the NBA since the 1979–80 season, from the Mavericks in exchange for a first-round pick in the 1988 Draft. Prior to the draft, the Heat agreed on a deal to select , who had not played in the  since the – season, from the  in exchange for a first-round pick in the  Draft.
405 seattle The Heat also agreed three other deals not to select a particular player from the Los Angeles Lakers, the Boston Celtics and Seattle SuperSonics. The Heat also agreed  other deals not to select a particular player from the   , the   and  .
406 seattle The Heat's other selections included four former first-round picks, Billy Thompson, Jon Sundvold, Darnell Valentine and Dwayne Washington. The Heat's other selections included  former first-round picks,  ,  ,   and  .
407 seattle However, Valentine and another draftee, Fred Roberts, were immediately traded to the Cleveland Cavaliers and Milwaukee Bucks respectively. However,  and another draftee,  , were immediately traded to the   and   respectively.
408 seattle The Heat also selected West German center Hansi Gnad, who had never played in the NBA. The Heat also selected   center  , who had never played in the .
409 seattle Four players from the expansion draft joined the Heat for their inaugural season, but only one played more than three seasons for the team. players from the expansion draft joined the Heat for their inaugural season, but only  played more than  seasons for the team.
410 seattle Sundvold played four seasons with the Heat until his NBA career ended in 1992. played  seasons with the Heat until his  career ended in .
411 seattle The two teams met again in the 1989 NBA Finals. The  teams met again in the   Finals.
412 seattle Heading into the rematch, the Pistons took the league's best record with 63 wins; the Lakers not far behind with 57 wins. Heading into the rematch, the  took the league's best record with  wins; the  not far behind with  wins.
413 seattle However, the Lakers appear well-rested after sweeping the first three playoff rounds against the Portland Trail Blazers, Seattle SuperSonics and Phoenix Suns, setting a playoff record 11-0 through the first three rounds, an accomplishment the Lakers would also achieve in 2001. However, the  appear well-rested after sweeping the   playoff rounds against the   ,   and  , setting a playoff record  through the   rounds, an accomplishment the  would also achieve in .
414 seattle The Pistons on the other hand won the first seven games of the playoffs, but were pushed by the Chicago Bulls in the conference finals before winning in six games. The Pistons on the other hand won the   games of the playoffs, but were pushed by the   in the conference finals before winning in  games.
415 seattle Prior to the season, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar announced that the 1988-89 season was to be his last. Prior to the season,   announced that the  season was to be his last.
416 seattle Therefore his 'retirement tour' consisted of pregame tributes in every arena to pay homage to the retiring Lakers captain. Therefore his 'retirement tour' consisted of pregame tributes in every arena to pay homage to the retiring  captain.
417 seattle The Lakers won 57 games that year, and steamrolled through the NBA finals, going 11-0 in a sweep of the Portland Trail Blazers, Seattle SuperSonics and Phoenix Suns. The  won  games that , and steamrolled through the  finals, going  in a sweep of the   ,   and  .
418 seattle Magic Johnson won the MVP award that year. won the MVP award that .
419 seattle Prior to the season, Lakers owner Jerry Buss offered naming rights to The Forum, which was accepted by the Great Western Bank and subsequently renamed the arena as the Great Western Forum, which paved the way to a flurry of naming rights acquisitions in almost every sporting venue in the United States. Prior to the season,  owner   offered naming rights to The Forum, which was accepted by the    and subsequently renamed the arena as the   Forum, which paved the way to a flurry of naming rights acquisitions in almost every sporting venue in the  .
420 seattle During the season, the Lakers had won their division, with Magic Johnson collecting his second MVP award. During the season, the  had won their division, with   collecting his  MVP award.
421 seattle The team swept the first three playoff series (Pacific Division foes: Portland, Seattle, and Phoenix), resulting in a rematch with the Detroit Pistons in the Finals. The team swept the   playoff series (Pacific Division foes: , , and ), resulting in a rematch with the   in the Finals.
422 seattle Johnson and Byron Scott were injured, with Scott suffering a hamstring injury in practice before Game 1 and Johnson pulling a hamstring during Game 2. The Lakers had won two straight NBA championships in 1987 and 1988. and   were injured, with  suffering a hamstring injury in practice before Game  and  pulling a hamstring during Game .The  had won  straight NBA championships in  and .
423 seattle The season was highlighted by Tom Chambers setting a franchise record for points scored in one game, when on February 18, he scored 56 points on the road against Golden State. The season was highlighted by   setting a franchise record for points scored in  game, when on  , he scored  points on the road against  .
424 seattle Just over a month later, he would break his own record when he scored 60 against Seattle on March 24. Just over   lter, he would brek his own record when he scored  ginst Settle on Mrch .
425 seattle The "1989–90 Seattle SuperSonics season" 22nd season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA). The "–   season"  season of the   in the    ().
426 seattle It was Bernie Bickerstaff's last season as head coach of the Sonics and the last full season of Xavier McDaniel in a Seattle uniform, as he was traded midway through the following season. It was  's last season as head coach of the  and the last full season of   in a  uniform, as he was traded midway through the following season.
427 seattle Seattle finished the season with a 41–41 record, losing the eighth seed in the Western Conference to the Houston Rockets, who had the same record but were ahead after tie-breaks, and thus did not reach the playoffs. finished the season with a – record, losing the  seed in the   to the  , who had the same record but were ahead after tie-breaks, and thus did not reach the playoffs.
428 seattle The "1990 NBA Draft" took place on June 27, 1990, in New York City, New York. The "  Draft" took place on    in     .
429 seattle This draft produced only one perennial All-Star,Gary Payton. This draft produced only  perennial , .
430 seattle Among the 54 picks,  Payton is considered by far the best pick of the draft. Among the  picks,   is considered by far the best pick of the draft.
431 seattle Payton went on to be considered one of the greatest point guards of all time. went on to be considered  of the greatest point guards of all time.
432 seattle He became a nine-time All-Star, achieved the NBA Defensive Player of the Year award in 1996, won an NBA Championship with the Miami Heat in 2006 and holds many statistical records during his tenure with the now defunct Seattle SuperSonics. He became a nine-time , achieved   Defensive Player of   award in , won an   with    in  and holds many statistical records during his tenure with   defunct  .
433 seattle However, after advancing to the Western Conference Finals with a 3–2  win over the Seattle SuperSonics in the first round and a 4–1 win over the Utah Jazz in the conference semifinals, the Blazers were denied a second straight trip to the NBA Finals, falling to the Lakers in six games. However, fter dvncing to the    with  –  win over the   in the  round nd  – win over the   in the conference semifinls, the Blzers were denied   stright trip to the  , flling to the Lkers in  gmes.
434 seattle The "1990–91 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 23rd season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA). The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
435 seattle Head coach Bernie Bickerstaff was replaced by his former assistant K.C. Head coach   was replaced by his former assistant
436 seattle Jones, and went on to occupy the desk of vice-president of Basketball Operations for Seattle, resigning months later to accept a job as general manager of the Denver Nuggets. , and went on to occupy the desk of vice-president of   for , resigning   to accept a job as general manager of the  .
437 seattle The Draft Lottery gave the Supersonics the No. 2 pick, that was used to select future All-Star point guard Gary Payton. The Draft Lottery gave the  the No.  pick, that was used to select   point guard  .
438 seattle Substantial changes were made on the roster, first by trading Sonics referent Xavier McDaniel to the Phoenix Suns during the first months of competition, followed by Dale Ellis, whose off-the-court problems were the focus of much unwanted attention, who was sent to Milwaukee, and forward Olden Polynice to the Los Angeles Clippers, both trades occurring days after the All-Star break. Substantial changes were made on  roster,  by trading  referent   to    during    of competition, followed by  , whose off--court problems were  focus of much unwanted attention, who was sent to , and forward Olden Polynice to    , both trades occurring  after   break.
439 seattle Seattle would finish with a 41–41 record like the previous season, this time being able to reach the playoffs as the eighth seed in the Western Conference, where they lost in the first round against the Portland Trail Blazers in 5 games. would finish with a – record like the previous season, this time being able to reach the playoffs as the  seed in the  , where they lost in the  round against the    in  games.
440 seattle The "1991–92 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 24th season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA). The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
441 seattle It was George Karl's first season as head coach of the SuperSonics, returning after a four-year absence from coaching in the NBA, to replace K. C. Jones. It was  's  season as head coach of the , returning after a  absence from coaching in the , to replace   .
442 seattle Seattle finished the season with a 47–35 record, reaching the playoffs as the fifth seed in the Western Conference, where they lost the Conference semifinals to the Utah Jazz in five games. finished the season with a – record, reaching the playoffs as the  seed in the  , where they lost the  semifinals to the   in  games.
443 seattle The "1992–93 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 25th season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA). The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
444 seattle With George Karl in its second season as the SuperSonics coach, the team improved their 47–35 record from the previous season to 55–27 and reached the 1993 Playoffs as the third seed in the Western Conference. With   in its  season as the  coach, the team improved their – record from the previous season to – and reached the  Playoffs as the  seed in the Western Conference.
445 seattle After defeating the Utah Jazz and the Houston Rockets in the first two rounds, they lost the Conference Finals against the Charles Barkley-led Phoenix Suns. After defeating the   and the   in the   rounds, they lost the   against the    .
446 seattle Frustrated by the constant losing and the desire to play for a contender, Barkley demanded a trade, which he got when he was traded to the Phoenix Suns for Jeff Hornacek, Tim Perry and Andrew Lang. Frustrated by the constant losing and the desire to play for a contender,  demanded a trade, which he got when he was traded to the   for  ,   and  .
447 seattle Moving to the then-brand new America West Arena from the Arizona Veterans Memorial Coliseum, the Suns would win 62 games in the 1992–93 season, a franchise record. Moving to the then-brand new    from the    , the  would win  games in the – season, a franchise record.
448 seattle Barkley's efforts won him the MVP award. 's efforts won him the MVP award.
449 seattle The playoffs, however, were no cakewalk for the Suns, as they lost the first two games to the Los Angeles Lakers at home before winning three straight. The playoffs, however, were no cakewalk for the , as they lost the   games to the    at home before winning  straight.
450 seattle In the second round the Suns defeated the San Antonio Spurs in six, and were again pushed to a decisive game by the Seattle SuperSonics before ultimately winning in the conference finals. In the  round the  defeated the    in , and were again pushed to a decisive game by the   before ultimately winning in the conference finals.
451 seattle For the Suns, it was their first NBA finals appearance since 1976 and second overall. For the , it was their  NBA finals appearance since  and  overall.
452 seattle The "Scotts Mills earthquake", also known as the ""Spring Break Quake"", occurred in the U.S. state of Oregon on March 25, 1993 at 5:34 AM Pacific Standard Time. The "Scotts Mills earthquake" also known as the "" Break Quake"" occurred in the  state of  on    at 5:34    .
453 seattle With a local magnitude of 5.6 and a maximum perceived intensity of VII ("Very Strong") on the Mercalli intensity scale, it was the largest earthquake in the Pacific Northwest since the Elk Lake and Goat Rocks earthquakes of 1981. With a local magnitude of  and a maximum perceived intensity of VII ("Very Strong") on the  intensity scale, it was the largest earthquake in the   since the   and Goat Rocks earthquakes of .
454 seattle Ground motion was widely felt in Oregon's Willamette Valley, the Portland metropolitan area, and as far north as the Puget Sound area near Seattle, Washington. Ground motion was widely felt in 's  , the  metropolitan area, and as far north as the Puget Sound area near , .
455 seattle In 1993-94, Michael Jordan shocked the NBA by announcing his retirement. In ,   shocked the  by announcing his retirement.
456 seattle This meant that various teams in the league had an opportunity to contend for a championship. This meant that various teams in the league had an opportunity to contend for a championship.
457 seattle The Hawks hired Hall of Famer Lenny Wilkens as their new coach. The  hired Hall of Famer   as their new coach.
458 seattle Wilkens was a star guard for the franchise when it was based in St. Louis in the 60's. was a star guard for the franchise when it was based in   in the 's.
459 seattle Wilkens was quickly moving up the all-time coaching wins list after successful runs with the Seattle Supersonics and Cleveland Cavaliers. was quickly moving up the all-time coaching wins list after successful runs with the   and  .
460 seattle Wilkens employed a defensive system which benefited several members of the team. employed a defensive system which benefited several members of the team.
461 seattle Guards Stacy Augmon and Mookie Blaylock were both named to the NBA All-Defensive team. Guards   and   were both named to the  All-Defensive team.
462 seattle The Hawks would emerge in first place when the first half of the season was complete. The  would emerge in  place when the  half of the season was complete.
463 seattle Despite being in first place in February, the Hawks would trade franchise leading scorer Dominique Wilkins to the Los Angeles Clippers for Danny Manning. Despite being in  place in , the  would trade franchise leading scorer   to the    for  .
464 seattle By the end of the season, the Hawks finished first overall in the Eastern Conference with a record of 57 wins and 25 losses. By the end of the season, the  finished  overall in the Eastern Conference with a record of  wins and  losses.
465 seattle Entering the playoffs, the Hawks struggled, as they needed the full five games to get past the Miami Heat in the Eastern Conference quarterfinals. Entering the playoffs, the  struggled, as they needed the full  games to get  the   in the Eastern Conference quarterfinals.
466 seattle In the Eastern Conference semifinals, the Hawks were upset by the Indiana Pacers in 6 games. In the Eastern Conference semifinals, the  were upset by the   in  games.
467 seattle The Nuggets posted a 42-40 record and made the playoffs for the first time in 4 years. The  posted a  record and made the playoffs for the  time in  .
468 seattle The Nuggets qualified for the playoffs as the 8th seed. The Nuggets qualified for the playoffs as the  seed.
469 seattle The first round saw the Nuggets matched up with the Seattle Supersonics. The  round saw the Nuggets matched up with the  .
470 seattle The Sonics had posted a league best 63-19 record. The  had posted a league best  record.
471 seattle The Nuggets lost the first two games of the series. The  lost the   games of the series.
472 seattle Upon arriving in Denver, the Nuggets used the shot blocking presence of Dikembe Mutombo to match up with the Sonics. Upon arriving in , the  used the shot blocking presence of   to match up with the .
473 seattle Along with career performances by Reggie Williams, Brian Williams, and Robert Pack, the Nuggets evened the series. Along with career performances by  ,  , and  , the  evened the series.
474 seattle The series went back to Seattle for the 5th game. The series went back to  for the  game.
475 seattle The Nuggets rallied to tie the game and force overtime. The Nuggets rallied to tie the game and force overtime.
476 seattle The Nuggets would emerge with a 1-point victory and became the first 8th seeded team to beat a # 1 seed. The Nuggets would emerge with a 1-point victory and became the   seeded team to beat a # 1 seed.
477 seattle To punctuate the win, Mutombo was on his back holding the ball and smiling after the buzzer. To punctuate the win,  was on his back holding the ball and smiling after the buzzer.
478 seattle In the second round, the Nuggets dropped their first 3 games to the Utah Jazz. In the  round, the  dropped their   games to the  .
479 seattle Despite the threat of elimination, the Nuggets would rally to win the next 3 games and force a 7th game. Despite the threat of elimination, the  would rally to win the next  games and force a  game.
480 seattle The postseason run would end as they lost 91-81. The postseason run would end as they lost .
481 seattle The "1993-94 Indiana Pacers season" was Indiana's 18th season in the NBA. The "   season" was 's  season in the .
482 seattle The Pacers would undergo several changes as the club traded fan favorite Detlef Schrempf to the Seattle SuperSonics for Derrick McKey. The Pacers would undergo several changes as the club traded fan favorite   to the   for  .
483 seattle The Pacers would play .500 The Pacers would play
484 seattle ball until April. ball until .
485 seattle By winning the final 8 games of the season, the Pacers were able to grab the 5th seed in the Eastern Conference and close out the season with a 47-35 record. By winning the final  games of the season, the Pacers were able to grab the  seed in the   and close out the season with a  record.
486 seattle The "1993–94 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 26th season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA). The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
487 seattle In the third season with George Karl as head coach the Sonics finished the season with a franchise best 63–19 record and made the Playoffs as the number one seed in the Western Conference for the first time since the 1978–79 season, where the SuperSonics won their first NBA Championship. In the  season with   as head coach the  finished the season with a franchise best – record and made the Playoffs as the number  seed in the   for the  time since the 78– season, where the Super won their   .
488 seattle However, the Sonics didn't make it past the first round, losing to the Denver Nuggets in five games after taking a 2–0 lead in the series. However, the  didn't make it  the  round, losing to the   in  games after taking a – lead in the series.
489 seattle It was the first time in NBA Playoffs history that a number 8 seed defeated a number 1 seeded team. It was the  time in  Playoffs history that a number  seed defeated a number  seeded team.
490 seattle Hakeem Olajuwon, then named Akeem, was drafted first overall by the Houston Rockets in the 1984 NBA Draft. , then named , was drafted  overall by the   in the  NBA Draft.
491 seattle Olajuwon quickly rose into an NBA All-Star, and in his second season, he led the Rockets to the 1986 NBA Finals, where they would lose in six games to the Boston Celtics. quickly rose into an  All-Star, and in his  season, he led the  to the   Finals, where they would lose in  games to the  .
492 seattle However the Rockets would gradually dismantle that team, and by 1991, only Olajuwon remained from that 1986 squad. However the  would gradually dismantle that team, and by , only  remained from that  squad.
493 seattle Midway to the 1991–92 season Rudy Tomjanovich took over as head coach and almost led the team to the playoffs. Midway to the – season   took over as head coach and almost led the team to the playoffs.
494 seattle By 1993 the Rockets were on the rise, with Olajuwon transforming into an all-around player while remaining a defensive presence in the paint. By  the  were on the rise, with  transforming into an all-around player while remaining a defensive presence in the paint.
495 seattle The Rockets would come within a game of the conference finals that year, losing to the Seattle SuperSonics in seven games. The Rockets would come within a game of the conference finals that , losing to the   in  games.
496 seattle The Rockets then started 15–0 the next season en route to a 58–24 record, finishing behind Seattle in the West. The  then started – the next season en route to a – record, finishing behind  in the West.
497 seattle In the playoffs they defeated the Portland Trail Blazers 3–1, the Phoenix Suns 4–3 (after losing the first two games at home), and the Utah Jazz 4–1 to advance to the finals. In the playoffs they defeated the    –, the   – (after losing the   games at home), and the   – to advance to the finals.
498 seattle The "1994–95 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 27th season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA). The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
499 seattle After a shocking first round exit in the 1994 NBA Playoffs against the Denver Nuggets the Seattle franchise would once again exit early in the 1995 Playoffs, losing in four games to the Los Angeles Lakers in the first round. After a shocking  round exit in the    against the   the  franchise would  again exit early in the  , losing in  games to the    in the  round.
500 seattle For the duration of the season, the Sonics switched venues and played their home games at the Tacoma Dome while their original stadium, the Seattle Center Coliseum, was being rebuilt to keep pace with NBA standards. For the duration of the season, the  switched venues and played their home games at the   while their original stadium, the   , was being rebuilt to keep pace with  standards.
501 seattle The Rockets' championship reign would end in 1996, where they were swept by the Seattle SuperSonics in four games of the second round. The Rockets' championship reign would   , where they were swept by the     games of the  round.
502 seattle The Sonics were also the last team to beat the Rockets in the playoffs prior to their two-year championship reign, when they defeated them in seven games of the second round in 1993. The  were also the last team to beat the  in the playoffs prior to their  championship reign, when they defeated them in  games of the  round in .
503 seattle That year, the Rockets won 48 games and achieved the fourth seed. That , the  won  games and achieved the  seed.
504 seattle The following offseason, the Rockets attempted to make it back to the finals by adding former NBA MVP Charles Barkley. The following offseason, the  attempted to make it back to the finals by adding former NBA MVP  .
505 seattle However, age and injuries would take its toll, and the closest the Rockets would achieve after their two-year championship reign was a six-game loss to the Utah Jazz in the 1997 Western Conference Finals. However, age and injuries would take its toll, and the closest the  would achieve after their  championship reign was a six-game loss to the   in the    .
506 seattle As of 2012, this is the Rockets' last NBA Finals appearance. As of , this is the ' last NBA Finals appearance.
507 seattle The "1995–96 NBA season" was the 50th season of the National Basketball Association (NBA), although the league didn't celebrate this anniversary until the following season. The "–  season" was the  season of the    (), although the league didn't celebrate this anniversary until the following season.
508 seattle The season ended with the Chicago Bulls defeating the Seattle SuperSonics 4 games to 2 in the NBA Finals to win the franchise's 4th championship. The season ended with the   defeating the    games to  in the  Finals to win the franchise's th championship.
509 seattle The "1995–96 Seattle SuperSonics season" was the 28th season of the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association (NBA). The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
510 seattle After two consecutive playoffs appearances losing in the first round, the Sonics finished the regular with a franchise best 64–18 record, surpassing the record from the 1993–94 season, and earned their third number one seed in the Western Conference in franchise history. After  consecutive playoffs appearances losing in the  round, the  finished the regular with a franchise best – record, surpassing the record from the – season, and earned their  number  seed in the   in franchise history.
511 seattle Led by Shawn Kemp and Defensive Player of the Year Gary Payton, the SuperSonics defeated the Sacramento Kings in the first round, swept the reigning champions Houston Rockets and got past the Utah Jazz in seven games in the Conference Finals to reach their first NBA Finals since 1979, where they would face the Chicago Bulls. Led by   and Defensive Player of    ,   defeated    in   round, swept  reigning champions   and got     in  games in  Conference Finals to reach ir  NBA Finals since , where y would face   .
512 seattle After an 0–3 start in the series, Seattle managed to win their next two home games, but eventually lost the series in game six in Chicago. After an – start in the series,  managed to win their next  home games, but eventually lost the series in game  in .
513 seattle The "1996 NBA Finals" was the championship series of the 1995-96 NBA season of the National Basketball Association. The "  Finals" was the championship series of the   season of the   .
514 seattle The Seattle SuperSonics (64–18) of the Western Conference took on the Chicago Bulls (72–10) of the Eastern Conference, with the Bulls holding home court advantage. The   (–) of the   took on the   (–) of the  , with the  holding home court advantage.
515 seattle The series was played under a best-of-seven format. The series was played under a best-of-seven format.
516 seattle The Seattle SuperSonics, coached by George Karl and led by All-Stars Gary Payton and Shawn Kemp, emerged as contenders in the Western Conference by 1992. The  , coached by   and led by All-Stars   and  , emerged as contenders in the   by .
517 seattle The Sonics broke through in the 1993 NBA Playoffs, pushing the eventual Western Conference champion Phoenix Suns to a seventh game in the conference finals. The  broke through in the   Playoffs, pushing the eventual   champion   to a  game in the conference finals.
518 seattle Then in the 1993–94 season, the Sonics finished atop the league with 63 victories. Then in the – season, the  finished atop the league with  victories.
519 seattle However, in the greatest playoff upset in NBA history, the Sonics lost 3 games to 2 to the eighth seeded Denver Nuggets, who finished 21 games behind Seattle in the West. However, in the greatest playoff upset in  history, the  lost  games to  to the  seeded  , who finished 1 games behind  in the West.
520 seattle Seattle would once again be upset in the first round of the 1995 playoffs against the Los Angeles Lakers. would  again be upset in the  round of the  playoffs against the   .
521 seattle By this time, Seattle had a formidable All-Star duo in Payton and Kemp, plus role players in Detlef Schrempf, Nate McMillan, Sam Perkins and Hersey Hawkins. By this time,  had a formidable  duo in  and , plus role players in Detlef Schrempf,  ,   and  .
522 seattle Game two was fortunate for Seattle in the first quarter, with a 27–23 lead. Game  was fortunate for  in   , with a – lead.
523 seattle However Seattle would once again lose the lead. However  would  again lose the lead.
524 seattle Despite attempts at catching up by Gary Payton in the second quarter, Toni Kukoč clinched the Bulls' win in the third quarter, with a final score of 92 to 88. Despite attempts at catching up by   in   ,   clinched  ' win in   , with a final  of  to .
525 seattle In the victory, Dennis Rodman tied an NBA Finals record with 11 offensive rebounds. In the victory,   tied an  Finals record with  offensive rebounds.
526 seattle Seattle would once again deny the Bulls the championship, stretching the series to six games. would  again deny the Bulls the championship, stretching the series to  games.
527 seattle Payton had this to say: "We feel great. had this to say: "We feel great.
528 seattle We knew we could play with this team. We knew we could play with this team.
529 seattle It just took too long. It just took too long.
530 seattle We should have come with this a little earlier." We should have come with this a little earlier."
531 seattle [http://www.nba.com/history/finals/19951996.html] [http://www.nba.com/history/finals/19951996.html]
532 seattle Shawn Kemp's performance in this game was considered by many to be his best in a Seattle uniform. 's performance in this game was considered by many to be his best in a  uniform.
533 seattle The 1996 NBA Finals would be the last Finals appearance of the Seattle SuperSonics. The   Finals would be the last Finals appearance of the  .
534 seattle The Sonics would win the Pacific Division again in 1997 and 1998, but fell to the second round of the playoffs each time. The  would win the  Division again in  and , but fell to the  round of the playoffs each time.
535 seattle The series was George Karl's only Finals appearance in his coaching career to date. The series was  's only Finals appearance in his coaching career to date.
536 seattle In 2008, the Sonics franchise moved to Oklahoma City and became the Thunder. In , the  franchise moved to   and became the Thunder.
537 seattle They would make the finals four years later after the move. They would make the finals    after the move.
538 seattle This was also the last time a Seattle-based team played for a major professional sports championship until Super Bowl XL in 2006, when the Seattle Seahawks lost to the Pittsburgh Steelers. This was also the last time a  team played for a major professional sports championship until Super Bowl XL in , when the   lost to the  .
539 seattle In terms of overall sports leagues, the city would later enjoy a pair of championships when the  WNBA's Seattle Storm, a one-time SuperSonics sister team, won both the 2004 and 2010 WNBA Finals. In terms of overall sports leagues, the city would later enjoy a pair of championships when the  's  , a one-time  sister team, won both the  and   Finals.
540 seattle In the playoffs, the Bulls lost only three games in four series, defeating Gary Payton, Shawn Kemp, head coach George Karl and their Seattle SuperSonics in the NBA Finals to win the NBA Championship. In the playoffs, the  lost only  games in  series, defeating  ,  , head coach   and their   in the  Finals to win the  Championship.
541 seattle The Bulls won the first three games of the best-of-seven series, but the Sonics rallied back to win the next two at home. The  won the   games of the best-of-seven series, but the  rallied back to win the next  at home.
542 seattle Eventually, the more experienced Bulls proved to be too much as the Bulls captured their fourth title (after a two-year hiatus). Eventually, the more experienced  proved to be too much as the  captured their  title (after a  hiatus).
543 seattle For his performance in the series against Seattle, Michael Jordan was named the Finals MVP. For his performance in the series against ,   was named the Finals MVP.
544 seattle The "1996 NBA Playoffs" was the postseason tournament of the National Basketball Association's 1995-96 season. The " NBA Playoffs" was the postseason tournament of the   's  season.
545 seattle The tournament concluded with the Eastern Conference champion Chicago Bulls defeating the Western Conference champion Seattle SuperSonics 4 games to 2. Michael Jordan was named NBA Finals MVP for a record fourth time. The tournament concluded with the Eastern  champion   defeating the   champion    games to .  was named  Finals MVP for a record  time.
546 seattle The "1996–97 Phoenix Suns season" was the 29th season of the Phoenix Suns in the National Basketball Association (NBA). The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
547 seattle After an 0–8 start, coach Cotton Fitzsimmons was replaced by former Suns guard Danny Ainge, who led the team to a 40–34 finish. After an – start, coach   was replaced by former  guard  , who led the team to a 4– finish.
548 seattle As the seventh seed in the Western Conference, the Suns faced the Seattle SuperSonics in the first round of the Playoffs, losing 2–3 in a closely contested series. As the  seed in the  , the  faced the   in the  round of the Playoffs, losing – in a closely contested series.
