Before the September 11, 2001 attacks, there were eight letter carriers assigned to the buildings to deliver mail to the buildings' tenants.
All of the Postal Service employees survived the attacks.
In the months following the September 11, 2001 attacks, over 80,000 pieces of mail continued to arrive each day addressed to the World Trade Center, including some items loosely addressed to such recipients as "The Search Dogs" or "The Rescuers".
As of 2003, 3,600 items of mail per day were still being sent to 10048.
These items were processed at the James A. Farley General Post Office, the main facility for New York City, located across from Penn Station in Midtown Manhattan.
Mail there was held for pick-up by messenger, forwarded to the intended recipient, returned to its sender, or destroyed.
Following the attacks, the United States Postal Service provided free mail-forwarding service to the WTC's former occupants for three years, rather than the usual one-year period.
By the end of 2006, the number of items sent to 10048 had decreased to around 300 items daily, mostly sent from businesses and organizations that had not yet updated their bulk mailing lists.

The renovation of 1049 5th Avenue was undertaken during a dismal economic climate for luxury real estate.
The same economic circumstances that overtook Gerald Guterman had not yet subsided, and many top real estate development companies were failing.
One of the prestige luxury addresses in Manhattan, Trump Palace, was struggling, and several recently constructed residential high-rises sat empty.
Prices for New York condominiums had fallen at least 25 percent since 1989, and plummeted a whopping 4.6 percent just in the second quarter of 1991.
Worse, the malaise extended well beyond New York.
The world was in the midst of a severe economic downturn, the recession of 1991.

After the fall of Port Hudson it engaged Confederate forces at Cox's plantation, while under command of Maj.
George Keating.
In the end, the unit lost 54 soldiers, 18 killed, 29 wounded and 7 missing.
This was the heaviest loss sustained by any regiment in the action.
The remainder of the year was spent by the regiment in post and garrison duty at Baton Rouge, and on 8 February 1864, the regiment was consolidated with the 162nd New York Infantry.
During its independent existence, the unit suffered one officer and 22 enlisted men killed and mortally wounded, and one officer and 59 enlisted men killed from disease and other causes, bringing the total number of casualties suffered to 83.

The "1783 New Jersey earthquake" occurred on November 30, 1783 in the U.S. state of New Jersey.
Measuring 5.3 on the Richter scale, it stands as the most powerful earthquake to occur in the state.
Shaking was felt from New Hampshire to Pennsylvania.
A brief foreshock occurred at 02:00 UTC on November 30 and an aftershock five hours later were reported only in New York and in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
The earthquake caused intensity VII damage on the Mercalli scale.

IV.
A tropical storm affected Virginia on September 18 before moving northeast into New York.
The tropical storm caused heavy flooding in the James River area.

IV.
A major hurricane was located off the coast of Virginia moving northward.
It hit Long Island, New York on September 23, causing damage and destruction throughout New England.
At least 20 deaths occurred, though "The loss of life was so heavy that the newspapers did not have space enough to give all the details of the marine disasters."

The Norfolk and Long Island Hurricane was a deadly hurricane that rapidly moved up the Atlantic coast during the first few days of September.
It included a hurricane landfall within the modern borders of New York City, the only recorded case of a hurricane eyewall moving directly over the city.
It caused 200 deaths, and is estimated to have been a Category 4 hurricane.

The first of three recorded tropical cyclones recorded in the 1821 Atlantic hurricane season, it was first observed off the southeast United States coast on September 1, with winds estimated in excess of 135 mph (215 km/h).
It moved ashore near Wilmington, North Carolina, and passed near Norfolk, Virginia before moving through the Delmarva Peninsula and New Jersey just inland.
The hurricane struck New York City on September 3, approximately near Jamaica Bay, and on September 4 it was observed over New England.
The hurricane occurred just 6 years after the destructive Great September Gale of 1815.

The "1821 Norfolk and Long Island Hurricane" was one of four known tropical cyclones that have made landfall in New York City.
Another, even more intense hurricane struck the region in pre-Columbian times (sometime between 1278 and 1438) and was detected by paleotempestological research.
The third was the 1893 New York hurricane and the fourth was Hurricane Irene in 2011.

The hurricane accelerated northeastward, and passed over the Hampton Roads area early on September 3.
After crossing the Chesapeake Bay, the cyclone traversed the Delmarva Peninsula near the Atlantic coastline, and at around 1500 UTC the eye passed directly over Cape Henlopen, Delaware; a thirty minute period of calm was reported.
It continued across the Delaware Bay and later passed over Cape May, New Jersey, where a fifteen minute calm was reported.
Modern researchers estimate it was a Category 3 or Category 4 hurricane upon striking New Jersey, one of the few hurricanes to hit the state.
Moving ashore at very low tide, it paralleled the state's coastline just inland, and after exiting into Lower New York Bay the hurricane made landfall on New York City at around 1930 UTC on September 3; this makes it the only major hurricane to directly hit the city.
A minimal hurricane in 1893 also made landfall on New York City.
One modern researcher estimates the hurricane was moving at a forward speed of 35 mph (55 km/h), and upon moving ashore had a pressure of 965 mbar.
The hurricane continued northeastward through New England, and after entering Massachusetts on September 4 its exact path was unknown; one researcher estimated the cyclone tracked northeastward until losing its identity over southeastern Maine, while another assessed the storm as passing far to the west of Maine.

The hurricane produced a storm surge of 13 feet (4 m) in only one hour at Battery Park.
Manhattan Island was completely flooded to Canal Street; one hurricane researcher remarked that the storm surge flooding would have been much worse, had the hurricane not struck at low tide.
However, few deaths were reported in the city, since the flooding affected neighborhoods much less populated than today.
The hurricane brought light rainfall as it passed New York City, though strong winds left severe damage across the city.
High tides occurred along the Hudson River.
Strong waves and winds blew many ships ashore along Long Island.
One ship sank, killing 17 people.
Along Long Island, the winds destroyed several buildings and left crops destroyed.

On June 29, 1835 the New York Evening Star reported: "About 5 o'clock yesterday afternoon, a tornado passed over the town of Piscataway, about two miles from New Brunswick, which destroyed every house but two.
The current proceeded towards the City of New Brunswick, and made dreadful havoc in that place, destroying and injuring nearly one hundred and fifty houses in Liberty, Richmond and Schureman streets.
The most melancholy part of the accident is the death of several persons.There were 5 deaths, and here are 4 of them.
A widow lady by the name of Van Arsdale, a man called Henry Boorsem, formerly a midshipman in the Navy, who was killed in the street, and a boy named Bayard."

During the evening of September 6, a category 3 hurricane with winds of 125 mph (205 km/h) was sighted just north of the Bahamas.
The hurricane continued northwestward as it slightly weakened.
It made landfall just south of the Florida-Georgia border during the afternoon of September 8.
The hurricane steadily weakened after landfall as it recurved into the frigid waters of the North Atlantic, emerging just south of Chesapeake Bay.
After entering the waters of the North Atlantic, it moved away from any landmasses as it regained hurricane  strength on September 10 and reached a secondary peak of 105 mph (165 km/h) or a category 2 hurricane on September 11.
The hurricane weakened slightly before becoming extratropical on September 12.
The hurricane was the strongest storm of the season and caused 26 deaths.
The storm caused large damage from Florida to New York.

The first known storm of the season—which would also become the strongest—is listed in the hurricane database as having formed on August 8 in the eastern Gulf of Mexico, just offshore the west coast of the Florida peninsula, although it is possible the hurricane was related to a heavy gale encountered by a ship on August 5 during its voyage from Havana, Cuba to New York City.
The cyclone drifted souhwest for three days, gradually intensifying to attain a strength corresponding to Category 3 major hurricane status on the modern-day Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
Beginning on August 11, the hurricane slowly curved to the north, then gained an easterly component to its movement, and was at its peak intensity with maximum sustained winds of  about midday.

A 1960 publication mentioned a tropical storm near Cape Hatteras, North Carolina sometime in October 1861 without specifying a date.
Newspaper reports indicate that ships mainly north of the Cape Hatteras area encountered strong northerly gales for several days starting on October 7, and winds in New York City persisted from October 7 to October 10 with a northerly component.
Partagás (1995) noted, "These findings do not seem to support a tropical system but the author made the decision of retaining the storm [...] due to the lack of solid evidence against its existence."
However, little is known about the system, and its inclusion in the hurricane database is limited to a single point at 35.3°N, 75.3°W.

However, the hurricane also had a significant impact on land.
Earlier in the year, Union forces had captured the fort guarding Hatteras Inlet at the Battle of Hatteras Inlet Batteries.
In the early morning hours of November 2, high seas began to overwash Hatteras Island, "completely covering all dry land except the position of the fort itself".
After four hours, water began to subside.
Extremely high tides associated with the cyclone continued up the coast as far north as Portland, Maine.
Storm tides at various points, including New York City, Newport, Rhode Island, and Boston, reached levels unseen for at least 10 years and up to 46 years.
In New York, the storm persisted for 20 hours starting early on November 2; rising waters inundated wharves along the East and Hudson Rivers.
Floodwaters flowed up to five blocks inland, and a popular bar located in a hotel became isolated by the flooding.
In response, a man transported customers to and from the bar on his private boat at a cost of two cents per ride.
Strong winds in Brooklyn brought down trees and telegraph wires.

Two tropical systems are known to have existed during the month of October.
The first was originally documented by Partagás (1995), who detected it based on a faulty report of a violent gale from a ship, the "Mariquita".
The report was said to have been from October 16, but given her arrival date in New York City four days later and her location at the time of her encounter with the storm, she probably encountered the cyclone much earlier in the month.
The violent south-southwesterly gale lasted 15 hours when the vessel was probably located at 20.5°N, 47°W.
The storm was initially assigned a single set of coordinates for October 6, and no attempt was made to reconstruct its track due to a lack of certain data on it.
However, it was noted that a ship further north on October 9 experienced a heavy gale.
Based on the likely correlation between the two ship reports, the storm's track was extended four days to late on October 9 in the Atlantic hurricane database.

On May 30, a tropical storm in the western Caribbean Sea wrecked a ship named the "Golden Rule", which was sailing from New York to the east coast of Nicaragua.
The ship first encountered the storm on May 29, reporting high winds and heavy rainfall.
After the wreck, the crew sailed to a nearby island, where they were rescued by two United States ships after 10 days.
The winds were estimated at 60 mph (95 km/h), although the entire track of the storm is unknown.

On September 18 and for two days subsequently, a barque sailed through a hurricane near the Cape Verde islands.
The vessel was en route from New York to Shanghai, but due to a leak from the storm it had to return to New York for repairs.
Aside from a single reported location, the track of the hurricane is unknown.
Winds were estimated around .

The final known hurricane of the season was observed on October 15, to the northeast of the central Bahamas.
The ship "Jim Cow", en route from New York to Panama, suffered heavy damage from the storm, so much that it could not complete its voyage.
Moving generally northeastward, the hurricane was estimated to have reached peak winds of 105 mph (165 km/h), based on ship reports.
On October 17 the cyclone was absorbed by a rapidly intensifying extratropical cyclone off the coast of New England.
It never affected land.

The hurricane was referred as Saxby's Gale after Lieutenant S.M. Saxby of the Royal Navy predicted in November 1868 that an unusually violent storm would produce very high tides on October 5; he did not specify the location, however.
Although heavy damage occurred in New England, the devastation was greatest in Atlantic Canada along the Bay of Fundy.
The hurricane produced a storm surge of around , which, in combination with the winds, the low pressure, and being in a region of naturally occurring high tides, produced a 70.9 ft (21.6 m) high tide near the head of the bay.
The high tides surpassed the dykes across New Brunswick and left widespread flooding, killing many cattle and sheep and washing away roads.
In the Cumberland Basin, the floods washed two boats about 3 mi (5 km) inland.
In Moncton, water levels rose about 6.6 ft (2 m) higher than the previous highest level.
There were 37 deaths between Maine, New Brunswick, and New York.

A tropical storm was first observed on September 1 to the east of the Bahamas.
There, it left heavy damage to a brig sailing from Nassau to New York.
The storm tracked generally northeastward, affecting another ship with damaging on September 2 near Bermuda.

At landfall, the hurricane was compact, estimated around  wide.
However, less than 10 miles (16 km) west of the center, there were no strong winds.
The hurricane produced a storm surge of , which was lessened due to it moving ashore at low tide.
In Providence, Rhode Island, high waves damaged coastal wharves and left flooding.
The hurricane weakened quickly over land, passing just west of Boston early on September 9 as a minimal hurricane.
There, the winds downed many trees and left severe damage.
All telegraph lines between New York and Boston were cut, although the storm did produce beneficial heavy rainfall.
Shortly thereafter it dissipated over Maine.
There was one confirmed death in Massachusetts.
Offshore Maine, a schooner capsized, killing all but one in the crew.

A strong,  tropical storm  was first observed south of Florida on June 1.
The storm traversed through the Gulf of Mexico before making landfall near Houston, Texas as a tropical storm on June 4, where a minimum pressure of 999 mbar was measured.
A station in Galveston, Texas recorded  of rain during a 14 minute time span on June 4.
Galveston was partially flooded with some railroads and buildings washed away.
One vessel, the steamship "Alabama" was thrown ashore at Galveston,while another,the "Virginia Dare" grounded on an offshore sandbar there.
Extremely heavy rains associated with this cyclone also caused flooding in New Orleans.
The New York Times,on June 6,reported that five hundred blocks of the city were submerged.
Eventually the storm dissipated in present-day Oklahoma.

It destroyed 1200 boats and 900 buildings in Nova Scotia, and killed at least 223 people, mostly sailors who were lost at sea.This number is disputed, as The Monthly Weather Review published by the American Meteorological Society set the death toll at 223 but the New York Times published a death toll of 600.
The hurricane caused $3.5 million in damage (1873 US dollars, or $53.9 million in 2005 dollars).
During this hurricane, the first hurricane warning was issued between Cape May, New Jersey and New London, Connecticut.

On October 18 a tropical storm formed west of Jamaica.
As it neared landfall in Cuba, it strengthened to a 100 mph (160 km/h) hurricane, but weakened while crossing the island.
It passed over southeast Florida and the Bahamas, strengthening to a 100 mph (160 km/h) hurricane again before hitting North Carolina between Wilmington and Morehead City.The hurricane raced across the interior of the United States, becoming extratropical on the 24th over New York.
The hurricane caused over $2 million in damage, and at least 72 casualties.These included 19 people killed when a ship, the "A.S.Davis", was driven ashore at Virginia Beach.In all the hurricane was responsible for 22 shipwrecks.Among these was the steamer "City of Houston" which was lost on  Frying Pan Shoals.

On August 19 Hurricane three formed southwest of Haiti and battered the Caribbean with heavy rains and a 5 ft storm surge.Hurricane three was pushed away from the south by a high pressure system and strengthened to a category 1 hurricane west of Virginia.
The storm took a course 70 miles away from New England and dissipated on August 28.
The remains traveled to New York and Maine and soaked the area.

The "4th storm" of the season began its life in the Central Tropical Atlantic on August 15.
The storm moved west-northwestward for the first week of its life, while strengthening on the way.
As it reached Category 3 strength, it moved more northwestward.
Cooler waters weakened the storm, but it managed to hit New York City directly as an  hurricane.
It was one of only two hurricanes to directly hit New York throughout the 19th century, with the other being the 1821 Norfolk and Long Island hurricane.
This storm was one of four active hurricanes on August 22.

The worst of the damage was reportedly confined to a  area surrounding New York City.
In a 24-hour period,  of precipitation fell, breaking the daily rainfall record.
Hundreds of thousands of dollars in losses accompanied the severe impact.
Low-lying areas of the city, particularly those near the coast, were flooded.
Roofs and chimneys were ripped off buildings and windows were broken in many homes and businesses.
In Central Park, "More than a hundred noble trees were torn up by the roots, and branches were twisted off everywhere."
The park was devastated and thousands of dead birds fell to the ground after being washed out of, or drowned in, their nests.
Groups of children gathered the birds and picked them up, with the apparent intention of selling them to restaurants.
The storm took the lives of 34 sailors as vessels were blown ashore and men swept overboard.
The tugboat "Panther", towing two coal barges, was wrecked; 17 crew members perished and three lived.

Winds from the storm exceeded  at Atlantic City and New York, initially blowing from the northeast before shifting southwesterly.
The hurricane wrought severe destruction, described by "The New York Times" on August 25 as "a mighty war of winds and a great tumbling of chimneys".
A  storm surge impacted the shore, demolishing structures.
The storm has been cited as an example of a noteworthy New York City tropical cyclone.
The cyclone is known for largely destroying Hog Island, a developed island that existed south of the modern-day Long Island coast.
The island peaked in size during the 1870s at about  long.

Less than a day later, the storm deteriorated to Category 2 strength.
Cape Hatteras, North Carolina experienced the hurricane on the morning of August 23 while its center passed less than  offshore.
Heading nearly due northward, the cyclone skimmed the New Jersey coastline, passing just east of Atlantic City, and weakened further to Category 1 status.
On August 23 the storm was one of four hurricanes occurring simultaneously within the Atlantic Ocean.
On August 24 the storm moved ashore on western Long Island, in the New York City area.
At 1200 UTC that day, while centered just inland, its maximum winds were estimated to have been 85 mph (140 km/h).
It progressed northward through New England, quickly growing weaker.
It was briefly downgraded to a tropical storm before becoming extratropical.
It dissipated fully on August 25, near the mouth of the Saint Lawrence River.

The "1893 New York hurricane" was a powerful and destructive tropical cyclone that struck the New York City area in August 1893.
First identified as a tropical storm on August 15, over the central Atlantic Ocean, the hurricane moved northwestward for most of its course, ultimately peaking with maximum sustained winds of 115 mph (185 km/h) and a minimum barometric pressure reading of 952 mbar (hPa; 28.11 inHg).
It turned due northward as it approached the U.S. East Coast and struck western Long Island on August 24.
It moved inland and quickly deteriorated, degenerating the next day.

At Brooklyn, still an independent city from New York, houses were dismantled and uprooted trees blocked streets.
Damage was widespread throughout the area and flood waters reached waist-high levels.
The storm was the most severe in years at Jersey City, New Jersey, despite the fact that its damage was moderate.
Trees were blown down and cellars filled with water there and in nearby areas, such as Hoboken.

There were 10 days of temperatures above  with 90 percent humidity.
The temperatures did not drop at night.
It caused more deaths than the 1863 New York City draft riots or the 1871 Great Chicago Fire.

Before the hurricane made landfall in Georgia, it produced strong winds in northeastern Florida, reaching Category 2 strength on the Saffir-Simpson scale.
The worst effects from the storm were confined to a very small portion of extreme northeastern Florida.
At Fernandina Beach, the storm surge was estimated at 12 ft (3.7 m), causing extensive flooding in the city.
The October 1898 Monthly Weather Review described Fernandina as "nearly destroyed", and most anchored boats were sunk or washed inland into the marshes.
Damage along the coastline reached as far south as Mayport.
The hurricane was small, and despite passing 50 miles (80 km) northeast of Jacksonville, produced only 60 mph (97 km/h) winds in the city.
However, for the first time in the history of the city, all communications were cut between Jacksonville and cities further north, such as New York.
Damage throughout the state was estimated at $500,000 (1898 USD).

On October 10, a tropical storm developed west of the Yucatán Peninsula and began moving northeast through the Gulf of Mexico, strengthening little.
The system made landfall near Lake City, Florida on October 12 with 45 mph (75 km/h) winds and quickly became extratropical as it moved across northern Florida.
The extratropical low skirted the East Coast of the United States before making landfall on Long Island, New York and accelerating through New England into eastern Canada, where it dissipated.

A tropical storm formed in the south central Atlantic on August 27 with winds of 40 mph (65 km/h).
The weak tropical storm moved west-northwest for a week through the Dominican Republic, Haiti, and Cuba.
After leaving Cuba and entering the Gulf of Mexico, it intensified rapidly into a Category 1 hurricane late on September 6 and eventually to a Category 4 hurricane on September 8, peaking with winds of 140 mph (220 km/h) before making landfall near Galveston, Texas.
The hurricane was unforeseen in Galveston, resulting in the storm surge and wind damage causing an immense loss of life.
After moving inland, it quickly weakened to a tropical storm and began to move northeast across the central United States through Michigan and into New York and through Maine.
All in all, the Galveston Hurricane of 1900 was responsible for 8,000 to 12,000 deaths, making it the deadliest natural disaster in U.S. history.

"Saale" was gutted, with the highest death toll.
After she became engulfed in flames, her mooring lines lines were cut, leaving her to drift as fire reached those further below deck.
Finally towed after she drifted toward New York piers, she settled in the Jersey flats near Liberty Island.
Her death toll included her captain (August Johann Mirow), and members (primarily women) of a group known as Christian Endeavor, who were visiting the ship before the fire started.
"Main" was furthest from the fire’s starting point, but was soon engulfed with fire.
She was unable to get loose from her moorings for more than seven hours, until the fire was nearly over.
Damaged nearly beyond repair, "Main" was ultimately towed to Weehawken, New Jersey, where she was beached.
Amazingly, 16 coal trimmers who had survived the fire hiding in a coal bunker then crawled out of the hulk.
Two days after the fire began, the red-hot ship continued to smolder and smoke, which further delayed rescue and recovery efforts.

The "1900 Hoboken Docks Fire" occurred on June 30, 1900, and killed at least 326 persons in and around the Hoboken, New Jersey piers of the Norddeutscher Lloyd (NDL) shipping company.
The piers were located in New York Harbor, at the foot of 3rd and 4th Streets in Hoboken,  across the North River (Hudson River) from Manhattan in New York City.
The area, a few blocks north of Hoboken Terminal, is now mostly part of the Hudson River, without docks; a waterfront bicycle path lines it.
There is, however, a "Pier C Park" on the northern side of the disaster area, which juts out into the water.
The fire began when cotton bales stored on NDL’s southernmost wharf caught fire, and winds carried the flames to nearby barrels of volatile liquids, such as turpentine and oil, which exploded in rapid succession.
It burned NDL’s Hoboken piers to the waterline, consumed or gutted nearby warehouses, gutted three of NDL’s major transatlantic liners, and damaged or destroyed nearly 24 smaller craft.
Most of the victims were seamen and other workers, but included women visiting one of the ships.

During the afternoon of August 7, 1900, a strong tornado estimated at  wide, struck the city of New Rochelle, New York along a  path.
The thunderstorm that produced the tornado tracked slightly north of due west through the area and was followed by a second strong thunderstorm that tracked northeastward.
Intense lightning was associated with the two storms, resulting in several fires.

The "1903 Vagabond Hurricane", as dubbed by The Press of Atlantic City, is the second most recent Atlantic hurricane to strike the state of New Jersey.
The fourth hurricane of the season, the cyclone was first observed on September 12 about 550 miles (885 km) northeast of Antigua.
It moved quickly westward, then later turned to the north-northwest, steadily strengthening to reach a peak intensity of 100 mph (155 km/h).
The hurricane weakened slightly before striking near Atlantic City, New Jersey, on September 16 with winds of 80 mph (130 km/h).
It weakened over Pennsylvania and became an extratropical cyclone over western New York on September 17.

The "1903 New Jersey hurricane", also known as the "Vagabond Hurricane" by "The Press of Atlantic City", is the most recent North Atlantic hurricane to make first landfall in the state of New Jersey.
The fourth hurricane of the season, the cyclone was first observed on September 12 about 550 miles (885 km) northeast of Antigua.
It moved quickly westward, then later turned to the north-northwest, steadily strengthening to reach a peak intensity of 100 mph (155 km/h).
The hurricane weakened slightly before striking near Atlantic City, New Jersey on September 16 with winds of 80 mph (130 km/h).
It weakened over Pennsylvania and became an extratropical cyclone over western New York on September 17.

President Theodore Roosevelt directly experienced the effects of the hurricane while vacationing on a yacht along Long Island.
The yacht experienced gusty winds and heavy rainfall, along with rough seas.
After the President was considered to be in danger, the yacht headed for land, and instead of embarking toward Ellis Island as originally planned, the yacht approached Brooklyn Navy Yard.
No one onboard was injured.
Rough waves sunk or severely damaged dozens of boats across coastal areas of New York, leaving dozens injured.
Winds in New York City reached 65 mph (105 km/h), with tropical storm force winds extending into Maine.
The outer moisture of the hurricane dropped 2.4 inches (61 mm) of rain in Central Park, with its gusty winds causing damage to suburban houses and signs.
The storm in New York City lasted 4 to 5 hours with its height occurring around 12:30PM.Numerous windows were smashed in Manhattan and horse drawn carriages were blown over.
Homes in Brooklyn were flooded and sustained some damage such as chimneys, awnings blown down and some roofs taken off.
Church Steeples were dislodged or blown off.
In Brighton Beach the roof of the Ocean Hotel was completely blown off and a similar fate befell the top of the Steeplechase Tower in Coney Island resort area which sustained considerable damage.
The hurricane also left businesses and the stock market quiet for the day, owing to the threat of blowing debris.

Operationally, the hurricane was first classified on the evening of September 15, based on ship reports.
Strong winds were also reported along coastal areas of the Mid-Atlantic, and the United States National Weather Bureau issued storm warnings on the morning of September 16 through September 17.
The hurricane continued quickly northward, and made landfall near Atlantic City, New Jersey shortly before 1200 UTC on September 16 with winds of 80 mph (130 km/h).
An area of convection in association with the hurricane continued north-northeastward, and operationally meteorologists estimated the center tracked into Connecticut.
However, post-analysis indicates the center of the hurricane continued northwestward, weakened into a tropical storm near Trenton, and after crossing northeastern Pennsylvania transitioned into an extratropical cyclone near Syracuse, New York.
The extratropical remnant persisted for another 6 hours before losing its identity over eastern Ontario.

The "1904 Chappaqua tornado" was an intense tornado that struck northern Westchester County, New York during the afternoon of July 16, 1904.
As of 2009, this tornado ranks as the strongest tornado to touch down in the county, ranking as F3 on the modern-day Fujita Scale.
The tornado formed around 3:30 pm EST within a severe thunderstorm near Chappaqua, New York.
The tornado quickly began to produce damage in the town, destroying several structures and killing two people.
Homes were knocked off their foundations and rolled over along the tornado's path.
By 4:00 pm EST, the tornado dissipated and left $100,000 (1904 USD; $2.4 million 2009 USD) worth of damage in its wake.
Hail associated with the same storm cell also inflicted damage upon a few structures.
The tornado is known as the worst disaster in the history of Chappaqua.

During the afternoon of July 16, 1904, a severe thunderstorm produced a strong tornado that touched down around 3:30 pm EST in Chappaqua, New York.
Residents reported the first indication of the thunderstorm was a large black cloud approaching the region.
The sky was reportedly completely dark as torrential rain and high winds commenced.
Intense lightning and loud thunder prompted people to seek shelter in their cellars.
The tornado tracked directly through Chappaqua before moving towards the Hudson River.
Upon reaching the river, the tornado became a waterspout that was powerful enough to uncover the river bed below it.
The waterspout eventually dissipated by 4:00 pm EST.
The tornado was later rated as F3 on the modern-day Fujita scale.

At the time of the tornado, roughly 1,000 people lived in the town of Chappaqua.
Five homes and three barns were destroyed by the tornado and two people, 80-year-old Mrs. Mary Hibbs and an unknown woman, were killed; six additional people were injured.
Orchards in the path of the tornado were completely destroyed and greenhouses were leveled.
The severity of lightning during the storm caused many women to faint according to "The New York Times".

The system that would eventually develop into a tropical storm was first noted by a ship north-northwest of Veracruz on September 23.
It was recognized as a tropical storm on September 27 while was located above the Bay of Campeche, and moved northeastward, and slowly accelerated as it intensified.
By September 28, it was moving moving east-northeastward at 24 mph (38 km/h), and simultaneously attained its peak intensity of 50 mph (85 km/h).
At this point, it remained just offshore the Florida panhandle, and moved inland shortly thereafter on September 29.
It plowed through northern Florida and southeastern Georgia while maintaining its intensity and transitioned into an extratropical cyclone off the coast of North Carolina on September 29.
The remnants of the storm merged with a cold front the following day while situated south of New York.

In the years following 1908, precautions were taken when reconstruction began, building architecture that would be able to withstand earthquakes of variable magnitude, if one should strike again.
In the midst of reconstruction many of the Italian residents were relocated to various parts of Italy.
Others were forced to emigrate to America.
In 1909 the cargo ship "Florida" carried 850 such passengers away from Naples.
Lost in a dense fog, the "Florida" collided with the "Republic", a luxury passenger liner.
Three people aboard the "Florida" were killed instantly.
Within minutes, pandemonium broke out on the ship.
The captain of the "Florida," Angelo Ruspini, used extreme measures to regain control of the desperate passengers, including firing gunshots into the air.
Eventually the survivors were rescued at sea and brought into the New York harbor where they would start a new life.

In areas in and around Pensacola, Florida,  winds caused some damage.
At the local pier, a ship, named "Romanoff", toppled over onto a wharf due to large waves produced by the hurricane.
Two barges carrying lumber sank near the western beach of Pensacola and several others lost their cargo.
Many small ships were destroyed by large swells and according to the "New York Times", some of these were "...swamped and pounded into pieces".
Further inland, the remnants of the hurricane brought light to moderate rainfall to portions of the central United States.
A maximum of  of rain fell in Arkansas;  in Missouri;  in Tennessee; and  in Kentucky.
A  section of the Louisville and Nashville railroad and an  section of the Illinois central railroad were washed out by floods caused by the storm's remnants.

Michigan's narrow margin of victory over Case raised concerns about the team's prospects.
"The Michigan Alumnus" attributed the low score to two factors "the disheartening frequency of the Michigan fumbles" and "the unexpected strength of the Case veterans" (the Case team had nine veterans among its starting eleven).
"The New York Times" blamed Michigan's close call on injuries: "Injuries and lack of training resulted in Michigan having a crippled line-up against the veteran Case eleven."
The "Detroit Free Press" noted that the lack of healthy substitutes forced Michigan to play a conservative game so as to avoid further injuries.

Immediately following the catastrophic flooding in Monterrey, an appeal was made to the United States and other nations for aid.
Many residents and visitors in the city did all they could to help rescue those trapped in the flood waters and take care of the homeless.
According to the "New York Times", one person rescued 30 people stranded in flood waters.
Numerous rescue operations were undertaken during the flood, saving many lives.
However, survivors faced another issue after losing their homes: lack of food.
Food was unavailable to most residents in the wake of the storm until August 31 when the first relief supplies arrived.
Even then, most only received a small amount of bread and beans.
Once the flood along the Santa Catarina River receded, searches were conducted to attempt to locate the bodies of victims.
However, reports indicated that the river bed was similar to quicksand and most bodies on it were likely underground.

The "New York Times" wrote that Cuba had "probably suffered the greatest material disaster in all its history".
It was reported that thousands of peasants were left homeless due to the cyclone.
Losses in Havana were also extensive; along the shore, scores of ships carrying valuable cargo had sunk.
The storm also seriously damaged goods stored on local wharves and barges.
"Tremendous" waves crashed ashore, flooding coastal areas.
Numerous ships and small watercraft were wrecked by the cyclone.
The raging seas submerged about  of Havana's oceanfront land.
The Malecón sea wall breached, allowing flood waters to engulf the roadway there and residences in the area.

The "1911 Eastern North America heat wave" was an 11-day heat wave in New York City and other Eastern cities that killed 380 people starting on July 4, 1911.
In Nashua, New Hampshire, the temperature peaked at 106 degrees Fahrenheit (41 C).
In New York City, 146 people and 600 horses died.

Reportedly, 2,000 homes in Omaha alone were destroyed, $8 million total damage from the storm, $5.5 million of which was in Omaha (financial damage estimates vary, the NOAA reports more damage than this).
The same storm system that struck Nebraska also created a huge dust storm in Topeka, Kansas.
On Sunday night, it spawned another deadly tornado in Terre Haute, Indiana, killing 50.
On Monday and Tuesday, the storm brought heavy rains to the Midwest and upstate New York, causing widespread flooding.

The dissipating remnants of the 1915 hurricane dumped heavy rains across the eastern Midwest and Ohio Valley states before fading out for good on August 23.
The rains caused extensive flash flooding that left significant damage from Missouri to New York.
Exact damage totals and reports of deaths or injuries are unknown.

Andrew Goodlife, professor of geological sciences at the University of Alabama believes Alabama is at "high" risk from earthquakes.
He also claims that "If there is an earthquake in one of the zone areas, North Alabama is certainly going to feel it.
There's going to be damage and some perhaps major.
If one occurred in the zone close to Memphis, it would be devastating because buildings are not made to withstand earthquakes.
Places like San Francisco are aware of earthquake risks and structures are built to withstand them."
In his definition, the state's earthquakes are "insignificant".
Emergency planner Bill Thomison is skeptical of a major earthquake, stating that "I don't believe there are any major faults (interface of rocks) here.
It depends on the magnitude of the earthquake and the Richter scale.
You could have a No. 4 (magnitude) earthquake in California and not damage anything, but the same type in New York could be devastating because the building codes don't factor in earthquakes."

The third tropical cyclone of the season formed 420 miles (675 km) southeast of Bridgetown, Barbados on August 16.
It moved northwest and crossed the eastern Caribbean as a minimal tropical storm on August 18.
On August 19, it passed east of San Juan, Puerto Rico and re-entered the Atlantic Ocean.
On August 20, it quickly strengthened to the equivalent of a Category 1 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
The cyclone slowed and turned west on August 21, and it continued to strengthen east of the northern Bahamas.
The cyclone strengthened to a peak intensity of 135 mph (215 km/h) north of Grand Bahama on August 24.
At the time, the storm was nearly stationary.
Several ships reported winds of hurricane force, rough seas, and atmospheric pressure readings to 970 mbar (28.67 inHg) from August 23 through August 25.
The cyclone turned sharply north, remaining east of the East Coast.
On August 25, it quickly weakened, and it passed close to Cape Hatteras on August 26.
It transitioned to an extratropical cyclone, and it passed over Nova Scotia on August 27.
The approach of the storm led to the issuance of storm warnings from Cape Hatteras to Miami, Florida on August 22.
Hurricane warnings extended from Beaufort, North Carolina to Cape Henry.
In advance of the storm, radio broadcasts also advised shipping interests to remain cautious north of Puerto Rico.
No damages occurred along the coast because of the recurving storm.
Peak wind gusts reached 74 mph (120 km/h) at Hatteras, North Carolina, and two people drowned along the coast.
Damage was minimal, though Ocracoke Island was flooded during the storm.
The White Star passenger liner  was battered by the storm on August 26 while the ship was off the Nantucket Shoals.
The ship arrived in New York the following day with 75 injured after having what was reported as a "100-foot wave" crash over the liner.

Due to the large size of the storm as an extratropical cyclone, gale and storm warnings in force from Beaufort, North Carolina to Eastport, Maine.
In North Carolina, heavy rains and strong winds were reported along the coast.
Near record high water rises were recorded around Wilmington. Cape Hatteras was temporarily isolated from the surrounding areas as the high winds from the storm knocked down power lines throughout the area.
Several buildings along the coast and numerous boats sustained considerable damage.
As far north as New Jersey, gale-force winds produced by the powerful extratropical storm caused significant damage and killed at least two people.
Large swells and high winds throughout New Jersey, southern New York and Connecticut resulted in significant damage.
Along the coast of Long Island, large waves resulted in severe beach erosion which threatened to undermine homes.
Parts of Coney Island were inundated by the increased surf, damaging homes and businesses.
Several barges in nearby marinas were torn from their moorings and swept out to sea.
In Sandy Hook, several workmen were nearly killed after a building collapsed amidst high winds.
Minor precipitation was recorded throughout Rhode Island, peaking at .

Playing conditions were of no help.
The 1925 Series was postponed twice due to poor weather, and Game 7 was played in what soon became a steady downpour, described as "probably the worst conditions ever for a World Series game."
Senators outfielder Goose Goslin reported that the fog prevented him from clearly seeing the infield during the last three innings of the game, and claimed that the Series-winning hit was actually a foul ball.
In the next day's New York Times, James Harrison wrote "In a grave of mud was buried Walter Johnson's amibition to join the select panel of pitchers who have won three victories in one World Series.
With mud shackling his ankles and water running down his neck, the grand old man of baseball succumbed to weariness, a sore leg, wretched support and the most miserable weather conditions that ever confronted a pitcher."

Shipping ahead of the hurricane received repeated warnings broadcast by both the U.S. and Canadian weather officials.
Small craft warnings and a hurricane warning for New York City were also issued.
However the majority of fishing vessels in Atlantic Canada in this period did not have radios, leaving the large fishing fleet on the offshore banks unaware of the approaching disaster.
Because of the fast forward speed of the hurricane, the damage was minimal in New England.
However, the hurricane was devastating in Atlantic Canada as the storm caused tremendous damage and 184 deaths (mostly at sea).
The hurricane's impact was the worst for Atlantic Canada in over a half a century.
Rainfall from the hurricane caused moderate flooding in New England.
Most of the flooding occurred in central Massachusetts.
In Maine, dense fog was reported and rainfall up to 2 inches (50.8 mm) fell across the state.
The rainfall caused isolated street flooding.
In Eastport, Maine a weather station reported a low pressure of 29.04 inches (983 millibars).
There were no fatalities and damage in Maine was minimal.
Offshore, the hurricane damaged a fishing ship leaving one dead and three injured.

The most notable storm of the season was the Okeechobee Hurricane (or San Felipe Segundo Hurricane).
This Cape Verde-type hurricane was the second recorded hurricane to reach Category 5 intensity in the Atlantic basin.
After forming on September 6 and crossing the tropical Atlantic, it began strengthening rapidly as it crossed the Leeward Islands on September 12, killing hundreds in Guadeloupe.
The storm, continuing to intensify, then made landfall on September 13 in Puerto Rico at its peak intensity as a devastating Category 5 hurricane, causing catastrophic damage and killing at least 300.
The storm also caused numerous deaths elsewhere in the Caribbean and Bahamas before making landfall near West Palm Beach, Florida on September 16 as an intense Category 4 storm.
Although damage was severe along coastal southeast Florida, relatively few deaths were reported in those areas; the storm's deadliest blow was on Lake Okeechobee as the eyewall crossed.
The muck dike surrounding portions of the lake's southern shores burst, resulting in a storm surge that caused massive flooding in many of the southern lake towns.
At least 2,500 people died in Florida in what is the United States’ second deadliest hurricane and second deadliest natural disaster.
The storm eventually ended its days as an extratropical storm over western New York that dissipated out over Lake Erie near Toronto.

The earthquake was centred on the edge of the Grand Banks of Newfoundland, about  south of the island.
It was felt as far away as New York and Montreal.
The quake, along two faults  south of the Burin Peninsula, triggered a large submarine landslide ().
It snapped 12 submarine transatlantic telegraph cables and led to a tsunami that arrived in three waves, each 3 to 4 metres high, that struck the coast at  about three hours after the earthquake occurred.
The waves travelled at speeds up to  at the epicentre; they were recorded as far away as Portugal.

Relief work in the Dominican Republic began immediately after the hurricane, personally organized by President Rafael Leónidas Trujillo.
The president deployed the entire nation's military within 24 hours of the passage of the hurricane.
By the day after its passage, lack of food had become a problem, and large numbers of robberies had occurred.
The winds downed all communications inside of the city, leaving damage details unknown until communications were partially restored a day after its landfall.
The city plant of the newspaper La Opinión was destroyed, with three staff members killed; the remaining workers transmitted a damage story to offices in New York City, and included a plea for disaster assistance.
The Red Cross office in Washington, D.C. sent $15,000 (1930 USD) in aid a day after the hurricane struck.

Weather stations in St. Croix and St. Thomas reported 60 mph (97 km/h) winds and barometric pressures ranging from 1000 to 1001 mbar (29.52 to 29.55 inHg).
The storm caused moderate damage in the Virgin Islands as heavy seas sank or heavily damaged small boats and ships in St. Thomas.
The New York Times reported that the hurricane killed 15 people in the Virgin Islands.

The hurricane caused damage ranging from moderate to severe in the corridor between North Carolina and New Jersey, due to high tides and strong winds.
In the state of Maryland, the storm's effects resulted in severe crop damage, and many boats and piers were damaged or destroyed due to high tides and storm surge.
The hurricane produced heavy rainfall along its path, with a peak of 13.28 inches (337.3 mm) in York, Pennsylvania.
Overall, the hurricane caused $27 million in damage (1933 USD).
and 31 deaths.

The storm caused severe damage in Tampico and further inland, leaving several thousand homeless.
According to "The New York Times", at least 67 people were killed.
Tuxpan, south of Tampico, also suffered heavy damage with many houses and office buildings destroyed.
Total property losses were estimated at several million dollars.

A ship first reported a tropical depression near the Cape Verde islands on August 13.
This system would become one of the most destructive hurricanes of the season.
The storm moved towards the northwest and attained hurricane status on August 16.
The hurricane continued to strengthen, and on August 21, it passed about 150 miles (240 km) southwest of Bermuda as a Category 3 hurricane.
St. George's avoided a direct hit but reported wind speeds of up to 64 mph (103 km/h).
On August 22, the hurricane turned west-northwest and reached its peak intensity, with maximum sustained winds of 140 mph (220 km/h), equivalent to a Category 4 hurricane in the modern-day Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
However, it weakened quickly afterwards.
On August 23, the storm made landfall on the Outer Banks of North Carolina as a Category 1 hurricane and continued to quickly weaken as it moved inland, away from its energy source.
The storm turned to the north, then to the northeast, passing through Virginia, Maryland, and Pennsylvania before weakening to a tropical depression over New York.
The storm became extratropical on August 25 and turned to the east, moving through Atlantic Canada and dissipating on August 28.

In the beach towns of Clinton, Westbrook, and Old Saybrook, buildings were found as wreckage across coastal roads.
Actress Katharine Hepburn waded to safety from her Old Saybrook beach home, narrowly escaping death.
She stated in her 1991 book that 95% of her personal belongings were either lost or destroyed, including her 1932 Oscar which was later found intact.
In Old Lyme, beach cottages were flattened or swept away.
At Stonington a New York, New Haven & Hartford passenger train was stranded on a causeway; along the Stonington shorefront, buildings were swept off their foundations and found two miles (3 km) inland.
Rescuers later searching for survivors in the homes in Mystic found live fish and crabs in kitchen drawers and cabinets.

New York City received a glancing blow from the hurricane.
Wind gusts up to 75 m.p.h.
blew throughout Manhattan causing the East River to flow three blocks inland.
The wind reportedly caused the Empire State Building to sway.
Brooklyn, Queens, and Nassau counties, located on the western end of Long Island, were hammered with wind gusts in excess of 100 m.p.h., but escaped the worst of the wind and storm surge due to being on the storm's weaker west side.
Power was lost throughout the city.

In total, 4,500 cottages, farms, and other homes were reported destroyed.
An additional 25,000 homes were damaged.
Other damages included 26,000 automobiles destroyed, and 20,000 electrical poles toppled.
The hurricane also devastated the forests of the Northeast, knocking down an estimated 2 billion trees in New York and New England.
Freshwater flooding was minimal, however, as the quick passage of the storm decreased local rainfall totals, with only a few small areas receiving over 10 inches (250 mm).

The years spanning 1893 to 1938 saw much demographic change in the Northeast as large influxes of European immigrants settled in cities and towns throughout New York and New England, many of whom knew little, if anything, about hurricanes.
Most people at the time associated hurricanes with the warmer tropical regions off the Gulf Coast and southern North Atlantic waters off the Florida coastline, and not the colder Atlantic waters off New York and New England.
The only tropical storms to affect the area in recent years had been weak remnant storms.
A more common weather phenomenon was a noreaster, which is a powerful low-pressure storm common in the Northeast during fall and winter.
Although Noreasters can produce winds that are similar to those in hurricanes, they do not produce the storm surge that proved to be the 1938 storm's greatest killer.
By 1938, most of the earlier storms were hardly remembered.

The storm was first spotted south of the Cape Verde Islands on September 10.
Over the next ten days, it steadily gathered strength and slowly tracked to the west-northwest.
By September 20, while centered east of the Bahamas, the hurricane is estimated to have reached Category 5 intensity.
In response to a deep trough over Appalachia, the hurricane veered northward, sparing the Bahamas, Florida, the Carolinas, and the Mid-Atlantic.
At the same time, a high pressure system was centered north of Bermuda, preventing the hurricane from making an eastward turn out to sea.
Thus, the hurricane was effectively squeezed to the north between the two weather systems.
This conclusion was not reached merely with the wisdom of hindsight.
As described by Scott Mandia, professor of physical sciences, State University of New York, in an article on this hurricane, there was a lone voice in the wilderness of the New York meteorological offices crying out a warning of hurricane for Long Island.
In Professor Mandia's words, "Charlie Pierce, a young research forecaster for the Bureau concluded that the storm would not continue to move northeast and curve out to sea but would instead track due north.
He was overruled by more senior meteorologists and the official forecast was for cloudy skies and gusty conditions – but no hurricane (Francis, 1998).
Because the official forecast was not cause for alarm, even as the winds picked up speed and the waves rolled in, nobody realized that a catastrophe was only a few hours away."

Late on September 20, this set-up caused the storm's forward speed to increase substantially.
In fact, the forward speed of the hurricane would ultimately reach 70 mph, the highest forward velocity ever recorded in the annals of hurricanes.
This extreme forward motion, being in the same general direction as the winds on the eastern side of the storm as it proceeded north, caused the perceived wind speed in areas east of the eye to be far higher than would be the case with a hurricane of more typical forward speed.
(Winds rotate counter-clockwise around all low pressure systems in the Northern hemisphere, thus winds on the right side of a hurricane--"right" being relative to the direction of motion of the storm itself—are moving in the same general direction as the hurricane.
Therefore, the forward motion increases the observed wind speed for points to the right of the eye of the hurricane and decreases the observed wind speed for points to the left of the eye, but in a complex way that defies crude addition or subtraction of the forward motion from the "intrinsic" wind speed of the hurricane.)
During the early hours of September 21, the storm, centered several hundred miles to the southeast of Cape Hatteras, weakened slightly.
By 8:30 am EST, the hurricane was centered approximately  due east of Cape Hatteras, and its forward speed had increased to well over 50 m.p.h.
This rapid movement did not give the hurricane a sufficient amount of time to weaken over the cooler waters before it reached Long Island.
During the 9:00 am EST hour, the hurricane sped through the Virginia tidewater.
Between 12:00 pm and 2:00 pm EST, the New Jersey coastline and New York City caught the western edge of the hurricane.
At the same time, weather conditions began to deteriorate rapidly on Long Island as well as along the southern New England coast.
The full force of the hurricane started to reach Long Island after 2:30 pm EST, and the eye made landfall at Bayport in Suffolk County shortly after 3:00 pm EST.
By 4:00 pm EST, the eye had crossed Long Island Sound and was making a second landfall just east of New Haven, Connecticut.

On August 7, a tropical storm formed north of the Leeward Islands, likely from a tropical wave.
It tracked to the west-northwest, slowly strengthening to a hurricane as it moved through the Bahamas on August 11.
Later that day, it met the east coast of Florida, and crossed the state in around 15 hours.
After weakening to a tropical storm, it quickly re-strengthened upon emerging into the Gulf of Mexico, and made another landfall near Apalachicola, Florida, on August 13.
Over land, the cyclone slowed considerably and quickly deteriorated.
By August 14, the storm had weakened to a tropical depression as it drifted through Alabama.
The depression turned to the northeast, and remained a tropical depression until it dissipated over New York on August 20.
Due to timely reports and warnings, the storm was reportedly forecast with "exceptional accuracy".

Numerous ships encountered the hurricane along its course.
On the "President Harding", en route to New York, one crew member drowned due to the rough conditions and 73 crew and passengers suffered injury, of various severity, requiring a call for emergency medical supplies.
The ship itself sustained a bit of damage.
As the storm passed near the island of Bermuda, it generated strong winds—gusting to —and heavy precipitation.
Damage was fairly significant; the winds uprooted trees, shattered windows, and disrupted public utilities.

Early on September 18, squally weather was reported throughout the Atlantic coast of Florida, with indications that a circulation center was present  offshore.
It is estimated that a tropical storm had formed at around this time.
The cyclone began to intensity as it briefly moved northeastward, before abruptly executing an eastward turn.
It attained Category 1 hurricane status on September 19, and completed a clockwise loop the next day.
It then tracked northwestward toward North Carolina, but began to recurve away from land late on September 22.
It weakened into a tropical storm shortly afterward.
The system dissipated on September 25 to the south of Nova Scotia.
The storm had little or no effect on land, but caused significant delays for North Atlantic shipping.
One vessel en route from Curaçao to New York encountered the storm on two separate occasions, recording Force 8 winds on the Beaufort scale both times.

The most damage was caused when the storm was its most intense, over the eastern suburbs of the city.
According to the Bureau of Meteorology, over 5000 roofs were damaged in Waverley by the lumps of hail which weighed up to .
No official cost total exists for the amount of damage caused by the 1947 hailstorm, however a Reuters article published in "New York Times" on 2 January estimated preliminary damage to be worth around US$3 million, equivalent to GB£750,000.
This is approximately equal to A$45 million in modern figures, placing it well below the costliest natural disasters in Australian history; this, given the severity of the storm cell, is attributable mainly to the relative inexpensiveness of buildings and other items of the era.
More definite historical accounts exist for damage caused to certain buildings.
The historic skylight which runs through the centre of the main Central railway station building was smashed, and the shards reportedly fell in sizes up to  on around 100 waiting passengers.

The smog first rolled into Donora on October 27, 1948.
By the following day it was causing coughing and other signs of respiratory distress for many residents of the community in the Monongahela River valley.
Many of the illnesses and deaths were initially attributed to asthma.
The smog continued until it rained on October 31, by which time 20 residents of Donora had died and approximately a third to one half of the town's population of 14,000 residents had been sickened.
Sixty years later, the incident was described by "The New York Times" as "one of the worst air pollution disasters in the nation's history".
Even ten years after the incident, mortality rates in Donora were significantly higher than those in other communities nearby.

The cyclone inflicted heavy citrus losses, and one-third of the trees were uprooted in many groves.
Agricultural losses reached $20 million (1949 USD), including 14 million boxes of fruit.
Wind gusts of 75 mph (120 km/h) affected Clermont, and numerous central Florida communities reported severe damage from the winds.
The observation station at Archbold Biological Station reported peak wind gusts of 110 mph (175 km/h); the town of Sebring reported 125 mph (205 km/h) gusts, which caused damage to trees and severe structural damage to buildings.
Estimations of property damage reached $100,000 (1949 USD) in the town, and local citrus groves estimated losses near $2,000,000 (1949 USD).
Buildings received considerable damage in the Lake Placid area, and telegraph, telephone, rail, and bus services were disrupted.
Flooding affected Georgia and the Carolinas, although the rains alleviated drought conditions in Maryland, Pennsylvania, New York, and New England.
Charleston, South Carolina reported a wind gust of 80 mph (129 km/h), and power lines were damaged.
In Maryland, damage was minimal, although trees were prostrated and electrical services were down.
Two people were killed in Florida, but advance warnings prevented a higher death toll.

Along the coast of North Carolina, the hurricane produced light winds and rough waves, as well as moderate precipitation.
Heavier rainfall occurred in southern New England, causing flooding in portions of New York City and producing slick roads that caused nine traffic fatalities.
Able produced hurricane-force winds in Nova Scotia, and damage across Canada totaled over $1 million (1950 CAD, $  USD) in the agriculture, communications, and fishing industries.
Two people died in Canada when their raft was overturned.

Especially heavy rainfall occurred over the southwest of New South Wales (extending into most of Victoria) during February, but it was in March, normally at the end of the wet season, that the heaviest rainfall occurred.
The monsoon trough, which is normally situated around Cape York Peninsula, moved to a latitude near Boulia.
At the beginning of that month some of the worst flooding on record occurred over the Barron and Herbert Rivers, and with a major tropical cyclone following the contour of the Queensland coast for over a week from 4 to 11 March and then moving inland, the heavy rain extended deep into the interior of Queensland and even to that part of South Australia northeast of the Flinders Ranges.
The flood on the Diamantina River was measured as the highest ever recorded, and Windorah on the lower Cooper recorded for the entire month , which is about 145 percent of its mean annual rainfall.
Most pastoral areas were described as having a "superabundance of feed" and losses of sheep in the Lake Eyre Basin due to blowfly strike were as serious as experienced in the frequent droughts characteristic of the basin's extraordinarily variable climate.

Overnight, the cold air mass, along with a cold front, moved eastward into New York and the New England area.
In the days before the storm, the New England region was experiencing significant heat, with a high culminating at 90 °F (32 °C) on June 6.
However, the cold air mass, an unusually strong one, lowered temperatures across the region.
The temperature in Worcester dropped over 15 degrees to 74 °F (24 °C) on June 8.
The presence of the air mass created the chance for warm air from the Southern United States to clash with the cold front.
This phenomenon, which is the way most tornadoes and severe thunderstorms are formed, is something that would not normally happen in the New England region.

Rain fell across Worcester County throughout the day on June 9.
In New York, a strong cluster of thunderstorms began to build, moving eastward into Massachusetts.
At approximately 4:25 pm (EST), a funnel cloud formed near the Quabbin Reservoir near New Salem.
Very soon after, a tornado spawned from the funnel cloud, touching down in a forest outside of the rural community of Petersham.
The tornado then proceeded to pass through a farm field, where it struck a farmhouse and killed two people.
As the storm moved eastward at approximately 35 mph (58 km/h), it hit the towns of Rutland and Holden, where 11 people were killed in total.

Hazel formed on October 5 just east of the Windward Islands and intensified into a major hurricane while crossing the Caribbean Sea.
In Haiti, Hazel destroyed 40% of the coffee trees and 50% of the cacao crop, affecting the economy for several years to come.
The hurricane made landfall in the Carolinas, and destroyed most waterfront dwellings near its point of impact.
It affected several more states, including Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and West Virginia, bringing gusts near 100 mph (160 km/h) and causing $308 million (1954 USD) in damage.

Only 29 horses ran in the race, the fewest since 1935 when 27 ran.
The 1954 running saw four equine fatalities during the race; this remains the only Grand National renewal to have yielded four fatalities.
Dominick's Bar dropped dead jumping the second fence; Paris New York incurred a cervical fracture at the fourth.
Legal Joy, who finished second two years previously, broke a leg at the 13th and had to be euthanised, while Coneyburrow was injured at the 28th and also had to be put down.
The two latter fatalities remain the only ones ever recorded at the 13th and 28th fences in the Grand National.

Hurricane Donna was the most destructive hurricane of the season.
After reaching Category 5 strength in the open ocean in early September, it passed north of the Greater Antilles as a Category 4. Donna hit the Florida Keys, Fort Myers, Florida, the Outer Banks, and finally Long Island, New York, on September 12. Donna caused $400 million in damage (1960 dollars), and caused 364 deaths, of which 148 were directly caused by the storm.

The "1960 New York air disaster", also known as the "Park Slope Plane Crash", was a mid-air collision between two airliners that occurred over New York City on Friday, December 16, 1960.
The collision of United Airlines Flight 826 and Trans World Airlines Flight 266, caused Flight 266 to crash into Staten Island and Flight 826 to crash into Park Slope, Brooklyn, resulting in the death of all 128 people on board the two airliners, along with an additional six people on the ground.

Peace was restored after three days, and only after Governor Nelson Rockefeller called out the New York National Guard, the first such use of troops in a northern city.
By the time the disturbance was over, four were dead (three in a helicopter crash) and 350 injured.
Almost a thousand people were arrested and 204 stores were either looted or damaged.

The most significant storm of the season was Hurricane Agnes, which at the time was among the ten costliest United States hurricanes.
After brushing the western tip of Cuba, the hurricane made landfall on the Florida Panhandle.
It caused at least $2.1 billion (1972 USD) in damage and 128 fatalities, mostly from inland flooding in Pennsylvania and New York.
The strongest hurricane of the season was Betty, which reached peak winds of 105 mph (165 km/h) while west of the Azores.
Tropical Storm Carrie passed just offshore of Massachusetts, causing heavy rainfall, resulting in four fatalities, but only $1.78 million (1972 USD) in damage.

A polar front and an upper trough over the Yucatán Peninsula and eventually spawned a tropical depression by June 14.
The storm emerged into the western Caribbean Sea on June 15, and by the following day, it strengthened Tropical Storm Agnes.
The storm curved northward and brushed western Cuba on June 17.
Agnes continued to intensify, and on June 18, it was upgraded to a hurricane.
Minimal fluctuations in intensity occurred before the storm made landfall near Panama City, Florida on June 19.
After moving inland, Agnes rapidly weakened and was only a tropical depression when it entered Georgia.
Thereafter, weakening slowed as the storm crossed over Georgia and into South Carolina.
However, while over eastern North Carolina on June 21, Agnes re-strengthened into a tropical storm, as a result of baroclinic activity.
Early the following day, the storm emerged into the Atlantic Ocean before re-curving northwestward and making landfall near New York City as a strong tropical storm.
Agnes quickly merged with a non-tropical low pressure system on June 23.

A tropical depression formed in the southern Gulf of Mexico on October 14.
Rounding the western periphery of the subtropical ridge, the depression strengthened while moving northeast towards the central Gulf coast ahead of an advancing cold front.
Moving inland late on October 16, the depression became an extratropical cyclone as it through the Southeast and Mid-Atlantic states, before moving offshore New England.
Heavy rains fell along the frontal boundary ahead of the system, leading to flooding across eastern Louisiana, central Mississippi, the western Florida panhandle, central Tennessee, western Virginia, and eastern New York.

Hurricane Belle was a major hurricane that threatened much of the East Coast of the United States.
It made landfall in Long Island, New York as a tropical storm, causing $100 million in damage (1976 USD) and five casualties.

The "1976 Atlantic hurricane season" was an average Atlantic hurricane season, officially starting on June 1, 1976 and ending on November 30, dates which conventionally limit the period of each year when most tropical cyclones develop in the Atlantic Ocean.
The season produced 23 tropical cyclones, of which ten developed into named storms; six became hurricanes, and two attained major hurricane status.
The strongest hurricane of the season was Hurricane Belle, which reached Category 3 status on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale east of North Carolina; Belle later struck Long Island, New York as a Category 1 hurricane, causing $100 million in damage (1976 USD) and a total of five deaths across the New England region of the United States.

Initially the police did not consider the fire suspicious.
An expert fire investigator was brought in from New York City to assist with the investigation.
He discovered that an uncommon highly flammable accelerent was used to start the fire in the form of a liquid which was ignited inside a storage cupboard under the first floor stairwell.
The fire was officially ruled as an arson attack.
No one was ever charged with this crime.
The case remains open today.
In early 2011, the Greece Police Department launched the most intensive investigation of the fire in the last thirty years.

The "1978 Holiday Inn Fire" broke out at the Holiday Inn-Northwest which was located at 1525 West Ridge Road in the Town of Greece, near Rochester, New York on November 26, 1978 and killed ten people.
Seven of the fatalities were Canadian; 88 Canadians were staying in the hotel at the time on a holiday shopping trip.
The fire was considered notable enough by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) and The Center for Fire Research to document the fire in their 1979 publications.
In the end 10 people were killed and 34 injured.
In 2008, the NFPA listed the 1978 Holiday Inn Fire as one of only three dozen or so fires which killed 10 or more people in the United States between 1934 and 2006.

Rain fell heavily in the Mallee later in the month, making it a record wet month in may parts of western Victoria and far western New South Wales.
The southeast corner, however, was already very dry.
February and March saw a continuing powerful monsoon, but except for the Mallee in February and the east coast from Newcastle to Triabunna in March, southeastern Australia was dry.
April had fairly normal rainfall except for continuing wet in Cape York Peninsula and dry conditions around Sydney and Hobart, where already rainfall deficiencies were acute.

Severe Tropical Cyclone Kathy was a powerful tropical cyclone that devastated the Sir Edward Pellew Group of Islands in March 1984.
Originating from a tropical low off the southern coast of Papua New Guinea.
Tracking westward, the system attained gale-force winds by 18 March before striking the Cape York Peninsula.
After crossing the area, Kathy entered the Gulf of Carpentaria where environmental conditions favoured significant development.
On 22 March, the storm attained its peak intensity as a Category 5 severe tropical cyclone (Australian tropical cyclone intensity scale) with ten-minute sustained winds of 205 km/h (125 mph).
By this time, the storm had been tracking towards the southwest and struck the Sir Edward Pellew Group of Islands later on 22 March before moving over the Australian mainland as a slightly weaker system.
Once over land, Kathy rapidly degraded, losing gale-force winds within 24 hours; the storm dissipated over the Northern Territory on 24 March.

Spawning enormous landslides, the earthquake left at least 305 people dead and more than 1,000 missing.
Entire villages were covered by debris.
It was described as "strong" by "The New York Times".

On the evening of December 27th, 1983, firefighters in Buffalo, New York responded to a call regarding a propane gas leak.
Shortly after arriving, the propane ignited, leveling a warehouse and causing a wide swath of damage.
Five firefighters and two civilians were killed in the blast, and left many dozens more injured.
The event remains the largest single day loss of life for the Buffalo Fire Department.

