0_seattle seattle As seen in the  quake, the    earthquake, and the  Tōhoku earthquake, subduction zone earthquakes can cause large tsunamis, and many coastal areas in the region have prepared tsunami evacuation plans in anticipation of a possible   earthquake.
1_seattle seattle However, the major nearby cities, notably , , , , and , which are located on inland waterways rather than on the coast, would be sheltered from the full brunt of a tsunami.
2_seattle seattle These cities do have many vulnerable structures, especially bridges and unreinforced brick buildings; consequently, most of the damage to the cities would probably be from the earthquake itself.
3_seattle seattle expert asserts that buildings in  are vastly inadequate even to withstand an earthquake of the size of the    earthquake, much less the much greater  that may well occur.
4_seattle seattle player   was the nation's leading scorer at that time.
5_seattle seattle would became the  player in the history of college basketball to   points in a single season.
6_seattle seattle He would finish the season with  points.
7_seattle seattle Against the ,  poured in  points.
8_seattle seattle 's brother   played point guard for  and his half court shot lifted the club to a  point lead.
9_seattle seattle The Chieftains led  by  points in the  half on  occasions.
10_seattle seattle In fact,  was still leading by a  of – with   to go in the game.
11_seattle seattle However, led by the sharp shooting of   and  ,  mounted a strong rally at the end, eventually winning the game by a final  of .
12_seattle seattle led  with  points,  followed him with  points for the , while  was led by , who scored  points before fouling out.
13_seattle seattle The victory sealed 's   Championship.
14_seattle seattle The major earthquake that struck on the   had a  scale reading of  and a maximum perceived intensity of XI ("Extreme") on the  intensity scale, although some sources have reported the magnitude to be as much as  on the moment magnitude scale.
15_seattle seattle The epicenter of the quake was at latitude  N, longitude
16_seattle seattle W near the  ,  east of the surface trace of the  fault, and  southeast of  .
17_seattle seattle This earthquake had been the strongest in over   for this region.
18_seattle seattle The   earthquake with a reading of  on the  scale occurred on   .
19_seattle seattle The shock was felt in southeastern  cities over an area of , as far south as , , and as far east as , , .
20_seattle seattle 's achievements include an  championship with the   in , Most Valuable Player Award in ,  All-  selections and    selections.
21_seattle seattle West played  seasons with the , winning the  championship in .
22_seattle seattle He was also selected to  consecutive All-NBA Teams and  consecutive  .
23_seattle seattle He later coached the Lakers for  seasons.
24_seattle seattle ' achievements include    selections.
25_seattle seattle After his playing career, he became a successful head coach.
26_seattle seattle He won   championship in  with    and       in .
27_seattle seattle He held the record for most games as a head coach in the , with  games coached.
28_seattle seattle He was inducted to the     as a coach in .
29_seattle seattle He became the  person that has been inducted as a player and as a coach, after   and  .
30_seattle seattle players from this draft,  pick   and  pick  , have also been selected to an  .
31_seattle seattle ,   pick, won   championships with    in  .
32_seattle seattle He later briefly coached the  in .
33_seattle seattle , the  pick, also had a coaching career.
34_seattle seattle He coached the   State Warriors for  seasons, winning the  championship in .
35_seattle seattle , the  pick, won   championships,  with the   in  and  and  with the   in .
36_seattle seattle He also had   Game selections.
37_seattle seattle After his playing career, he coached   teams, most  with the  .
38_seattle seattle , the  pick, was selected to    in his playing career before becoming a head coach.
39_seattle seattle He coached the   for  seasons before being fired during the – season.
40_seattle seattle He then became the head coach of the   in , the position he held until resigning in  .
41_seattle seattle He has been inducted to the     as a coach.
42_seattle seattle ,  pick  ,  pick   and  pick   are the only other players from this draft who have been selected to an  .
43_seattle seattle , the  pick, has also been inducted to the Basketball Hall of  as a coach.
44_seattle seattle After finishing his playing career, he became a successful college basketball head coach at  .
45_seattle seattle He coached the   for  seasons, winning the     () championship in  and becoming the    head coach to win a major collegiate championship.
46_seattle seattle Aside from playing basketball,  pick   also played professional baseball in the    (MLB).
47_seattle seattle He played baseball for  seasons in between his basketball career.
48_seattle seattle He is  of only  athletes who have played in both  and MLB.
49_seattle seattle , the  pick, was selected to    and   .
50_seattle seattle , the  pick, was selected to    during his playing career before becoming a head coach.
51_seattle seattle He coached the   for  seasons before being fired during the – season.
52_seattle seattle He then became the head coach of the   in , the position he held until resigning in  .
53_seattle seattle He has been inducted to the     as a coach.
54_seattle seattle Twin brothers     , who were drafted with the    picks, became the  set of twins to play in the .
55_seattle seattle Each of them had    selections.
56_seattle seattle They played for different  teams until their last season, which they spent together as a member of the  .
57_seattle seattle also had a coaching career.
58_seattle seattle He was the interim head coach of the  in .
59_seattle seattle other players from this draft,  pick   and  pick  , have also been selected to an  .
60_seattle seattle , the  pick, also became a head coach after ending his playing career.
61_seattle seattle He coached   teams, most  with the  .
62_seattle seattle , the  pick, never played in the .
63_seattle seattle He joined  club    in  and played there until his retirement in , winning several  league titles and an    in .
64_seattle seattle He also became an  citizen and played for  national team.
65_seattle seattle Aside from playing in the ,  pick   also played professional baseball in the    (MLB).
66_seattle seattle He ended his dual-sport career in  to focus on baseball.
67_seattle seattle He played  seasons in the  with  teams, winning the   .
68_seattle seattle He was also an  .
69_seattle seattle He is  of only  athletes who have played in both  and MLB.
70_seattle seattle The  , the  franchise in the , were founded by a group of investors led by   and  .
71_seattle seattle The Sonics were founded by   then served as president of the team and head of operations.
72_seattle seattle He hired former   assistant coach   to became the franchise's  head coach.
73_seattle seattle The ' selections included six-time    and one-time   .
74_seattle seattle , who was serving as the   ' player-coach when the  selected him, decided to retired from playing and became a full-time head coach for the .
75_seattle seattle He never played for the , even though he later came back from retirement to play with the .
76_seattle seattle players from the expansion draft joined the  for their inaugural season, but only  played more than  season for the team.
77_seattle seattle (then known as  ), who only played  season with the , was named to the   , becoming the franchise's  .
78_seattle seattle The "  Expansion Draft" was the  expansion draft of the    ().
79_seattle seattle The draft was held on   967 so that the newly founded    and   could acquire players for the upcoming 967– season.
80_seattle seattle and   had been awarded the expansion teams on    and    respectively.
81_seattle seattle The  moved to ,  in  and are  known as the  .
82_seattle seattle The  moved to  ,  in  and are  known as the   .
83_seattle seattle In an  expansion draft, new  teams are allowed to acquire players from the  established teams in the league.
84_seattle seattle Not all players on a given team are available during an expansion draft, since each team can protect a certain number of players from being selected.
85_seattle seattle The Rockets and the  both selected  unprotected players each, while the  other  teams lost  players each.
86_seattle seattle other  teams won  or more games  , getting some easy ones at the expense of the new clubs in  and  .
87_seattle seattle The   ,  fully recovered from the retirement of  , posted  wins to win the 's  .
88_seattle seattle 's club got strong rebounding from their frontline and got 20-point scoring from All-Pro point guard   and center  .
89_seattle seattle The  did have  scorers over  points per game, but lost   to military service for  games, which slowed them down.
90_seattle seattle The Hawks again also had the league's top-rated defense.
91_seattle seattle Following the season, the  would relocate to .
92_seattle seattle kicked off the regular season with a game against the    on   at the Cow Palace, where they fell –.
93_seattle seattle had a high scoring debut, leading the ' offense with  points, followed by   with .
94_seattle seattle After   off, the  plyed in consecutive dys ginst the other expnsion frnchise, the Sn  , splitting the series nd thus winning their  regulr seson gme in frnchise history.
95_seattle seattle After  streaks   and  straight losses,  Sonics found mselves quickly near  bottom     by         competition.
96_seattle seattle A few surprising results stood out, including their only victory against  's   in a double-header in , with the  trailing by as much as  points after the  half, and an outstanding performance by rookie  , with  points in a victory against the   .
97_seattle seattle On the other hand, the  were on the losing end of   scoring records.
98_seattle seattle , in  with  – loss ginst defending chmpions  76ers, tht set  new  record for most points by  tem in  qurter nd  – loss ginst the Lkers on Jnury tht tied  frnchise record for   for most points in  gme.
99_seattle seattle With  games left in the regular season the  were behind  games from the   in a last effort to obtain a berth in the playoffs, But in spite of defeating the  in  of those  games,  managed to pull away with the  place in the   and the last spot in the playoff race,  games above the .
100_seattle seattle The twelve-man roster for the – season consisted of  rookies from the   Draft and  players from the expansion draft.
101_seattle seattle 's choice of player-coach   from the    came as a surprise to most, since  had already announced his retirement, and thus did not play for the .
102_seattle seattle He would return for the – season to play for the relocated   after  traded him in the offseason.
103_seattle seattle Selecting   from the    was made posible after the  unprotected him for the draft, after  informed the   front office that he desired to join the  .
104_seattle seattle 's offer, however, was accepted by .
105_seattle seattle The  planned to sign former    player   before the start of the regular season, but league rules prohibited the  franchise to offer him a contract, since  was expelled from college after a point shaving scandal.
106_seattle seattle The "   season" was the team's  season in , after their relocation from  , where the franchise played the previous  seasons.
107_seattle seattle The franchise traded   to the   in exchange for  .
108_seattle seattle would help led the  to   plce finish with  record of  wins nd  losses.
109_seattle seattle In the playoffs, the  eliminated the    in  games.
110_seattle seattle In the   , the  challenged the   .
111_seattle seattle The Lakers would eliminate the  in  games.
112_seattle seattle The "&ndash;   season" was the inaugural season for the   of the   .
113_seattle seattle In the season Suns' debut, head coach   led the franchise to its  win in a victory over the  .
114_seattle seattle No other season for the  contained as many losses as the franchise's  season, and it would not be long before the team provided the city of  with its  opportunity to host a home playoff game.
115_seattle seattle All home games were played at  Veterans Memorial Coliseum.
116_seattle seattle Both   and   were selected to the    team.
117_seattle seattle , who led the conference in scoring with a  average in conference games, was also an  selection.
118_seattle seattle was selected in the    by the    with the  overall selection in the  round.
119_seattle seattle led the conference in field goal percentage with 55.4%.
120_seattle seattle would become the only Tiger teammates to both be drafted in the  round of the NBA Draft (in the same draft no less) when they were selected    overall in the  NBA Draft by the Portl    the  .
121_seattle seattle The  were part of a trio of  NBA first-round draftees from the   that included number  selection   of .
122_seattle seattle was the   draft pick by the expansion  .
123_seattle seattle would share   NBA Rookie of   Award with  .
124_seattle seattle was selected in the  NBA Draft by the   with the  overall selection in the  round while   was selected by the   with the  overall selection in the  round.
125_seattle seattle Despite losing the number  draft pick to the Bucks, the  would win another significant coin flip.
126_seattle seattle The Suns bested the   for the rights to  star  .
127_seattle seattle In his freshmen  with ,  was implicated, without evidence, in a point shaving scandal, which led to his expulsion from the university.
128_seattle seattle While eligible,  went undrafted in the ,  and  NBA drafts, before being officially barred from the league.
129_seattle seattle would star in the upstart    (), winning the Most Valuable Player Award in the 's inaugural – season.
130_seattle seattle would then spend   with the  , before joining the   of the upstart    (ABA) in .
131_seattle seattle led the league in scoring, while leading the Pipers to the   championship, and receiving the 's  Most Valuable Player Award in .
132_seattle seattle In , ' attorneys filed a $6 million anti-trust lawsuit against the .
133_seattle seattle In , a   article absolved  from involvement in the point shaving scandal, leading the  to pay a $1.3 million settlement and allow  into the league.
134_seattle seattle "The Hawk" would become the   star, making the    in , and appearing in  consecutive  .
135_seattle seattle On   76  became the  player in  franchise history to have his number retired.
136_seattle seattle On    the  waived swingman  .
137_seattle seattle would sign as a free agent with the Los Angeles Stars of the .
138_seattle seattle On   969  "Big Daddy D"  was waived.
139_seattle seattle would later sign with the  Condors of the .
140_seattle seattle Although  repeted s n    tem selection,  filed to do so nd ws   tem selection.
141_seattle seattle However,  was a  team  selection by the " " and repeated as an  selection.
142_seattle seattle were the only Tiger teammates to both be drafted in the  round of the NBA Draft (in the same draft no less) when they were selected    overall in the  NBA Draft by the Portl    the  .
143_seattle seattle The  were part of a trio of  NBA first-round draftees from the   that included number  selection   of .
144_seattle seattle was the   draft pick by the expansion  .
145_seattle seattle would share   NBA Rookie of   Award with  .
146_seattle seattle was selected in the  NBA Draft by the   with the  overall selection in the  round while   was selected by the   with the  overall selection in the  round.
147_seattle seattle was also selected by the  with the  overall selection in the  round of the  NBA Draft.
148_seattle seattle The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the .
149_seattle seattle After the resignation of  ,   took the role of player-coach and led the team to a – record, a  win improvement over their previous season and  games behind the  , who got the last playoff spot in the  .
150_seattle seattle led the league in assists with  apg.
151_seattle seattle The "–   season" was the  season in the of the   in the    ().
152_seattle seattle In their  season with   as head coach, the  finished in  place in the   with a – record.
153_seattle seattle Trouble arose with the injury of top scorer  , who tore his achilles tendon  games into the season during a match against the    and lost him for the remainder of the season.
154_seattle seattle was selected in the  round by the   although he already played in the  with the   in the previous season.
155_seattle seattle He left college basketball in  with   remaining in his college eligibility.
156_seattle seattle At that time, the  prohibited the drafting or signing of a player before his college class had graduated.
157_seattle seattle He then played in the  with the   for a season before controversially signed by the .
158_seattle seattle The league and the other  teams opposed the move and argued  should be prohibited to join and play with the .
159_seattle seattle This led to a court case between the  against the  and .
160_seattle seattle He argued that he should be allowed to play because he was a "hardship case", due to his position as the sole wage earner in his family.
161_seattle seattle He then won the case and was allowed to play late in the – season.
162_seattle seattle This led to the  allowing college underclassmen to enter the draft provided they could give evidence of "hardship".
163_seattle seattle With the existing rules,  was eligible for  's draft, when his college class graduated.
164_seattle seattle The  used  of their  second-round picks to select him, hoping that they would win the rights to sign him.
165_seattle seattle However, he remained with the  and never played for the .
166_seattle seattle The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
167_seattle seattle In their  season with   as head coach, the  finished the regular season in  place in the   with a – record, their  winning record in franchise history.
168_seattle seattle quit as head coach at the end of the season  and was replaced by former   coach  .
169_seattle seattle With the  overall pick in the   Draft,  selected   from the   .
170_seattle seattle After   negotiation (        also selected him in   ABA Draft),   signed him to a multi-year contract   would go on to have a career spanning  seasons with  Super.
171_seattle seattle : Guard   and forward   obtained from the   in exchange for guard  .
172_seattle seattle got another huge  from , who looked again to be the 's top player.
173_seattle seattle His  points per game was  in the league, and he was  in  rebounds.
174_seattle seattle Only  player,  's desperate and great  , scored more points.
175_seattle seattle Only ,  and 's controversial  , tried more shots.
176_seattle seattle But  sank 55% of his shots, tops among high-scoring  shooters, and likely again blocked more shots than any big man in the league.
177_seattle seattle The  footer also added  assists per game.
178_seattle seattle He was the total package.
179_seattle seattle A balanced cast of Bucks supported  en route to another 60-win campaign, their  straight.
180_seattle seattle But both teams were showing some gray streaks as West, , and  , all all-time greats, were each clearly approaching the end of remarkable careers.
181_seattle seattle The  60-win monsters drew most of the attention as playoff time arrived, which again rigidly followed the 's  divisions.
182_seattle seattle All of the 's  winning teams neatly made the field.
183_seattle seattle The  made only  trade during the offseason that sent    to the    and brought back a member of the original Super team,   ( known as  ) to .
184_seattle seattle The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
185_seattle seattle Following the resignation of   as a head coach after the – season and a poor campaign in the 19– season that saw the departure of general manager  , the  hired  ' stalwart   as head coach and general manager.
186_seattle seattle With  at the helm, the team finished in  place in the   with a – record.
187_seattle seattle The Sonics' home court,   , was the venue for the   All-Star Game.
188_seattle seattle The Warriors had a  round bye.
189_seattle seattle () "Golden State Warriors" vs. ()  : "Warriors win series -" () "Golden State Warriors" vs. ()  : "Warriors win series -3" (E)  Bullets vs. (W) "Golden State Warriors": "Warriors win series -0"
190_seattle seattle In the playoffs, the Warriors got to the    by beating the   in  games.
191_seattle seattle In the  , the Warriors looked like they were about to lose to former teammate  .
192_seattle seattle The Warriors found themselves down against the    games to .The Warriors rallied to win Game  in  and took the series with an – Game  triumph in .
193_seattle seattle In the  Finals, the Warriors faced off against the  Bullets.
194_seattle seattle The Warriors took the series in  straight games, including 1-point wins in Games  and .  was named the series MVP.
195_seattle seattle teams out of  finished over ,
196_seattle seattle but  teams,  ,  and , also had  records.
197_seattle seattle drew a young   team who had just won their  playoff series in franchise history against the  .
198_seattle seattle The  had 20-point scorers   and   but little rebounding, and the veteran Celtics got  the   and into the    again.
199_seattle seattle The much tougher East bracket was , who had the same record  had, against the tough  .
200_seattle seattle vs.  was the marquee matchup.
201_seattle seattle But the , who had traded  , did not not have the help for their star.
202_seattle seattle Despite that, the series went the full  in impressive fashion before the Bullets won to advance.
203_seattle seattle played well in place of  , but not enough to turn the series the other way.
204_seattle seattle Out West,  , still under the radar with many, met a solid  team.
205_seattle seattle , their outspoken star, struggled with illnesses much of  .
206_seattle seattle Rookie center   and bombing guard   picked up 's slack with 20-point averages from the passes of guard  , their  defender.
207_seattle seattle But a  wipeout loss in Game  put the writing on the wall as the Warriors advanced.
208_seattle seattle drew a very good   team that had bounced back from the bad    under coach  .
209_seattle seattle was their star at just .
210_seattle seattle But the Bulls guards hounded  the Skate to just 36% shooting in the series.
211_seattle seattle also schooled rookie forward   as the  won .
212_seattle seattle The anticipated monster clash of  was set, with DC native Red Auerbach in the shadows.
213_seattle seattle and  each turned in very strong performances, but did not guard each other.
214_seattle seattle and  joined  as 20-point Celtic scorers.
215_seattle seattle But somehow the  lost  of the   ballgames anyway.
216_seattle seattle The inside defense of the , combined with plenty of free throws, allowed  to send the vaunted world champions home.
217_seattle seattle For some, this was a title in itself.
218_seattle seattle But there was still  more round to play.
219_seattle seattle Most experts  expected  to finally get their hard-earned shot in a classic offense vs. defense series against Golden State.
220_seattle seattle Plus,  was seeking revenge against his old team, which  had   , a former  and a lesser center, in his former  center spot.
221_seattle seattle The series would be a full seven-game barnburner.
222_seattle seattle The  used a  Game  win to start a  advantage.
223_seattle seattle Golden State bounced back to win Game   but the  won Game , making it .
224_seattle seattle The Warriors cranked it up to win Game   in  to force Game  at home.
225_seattle seattle Bulls coach,  , was giving most of the center  to rebounder  , not .
226_seattle seattle With no bench scoring and  playing an average of just   per game, The Warriors wiggled off the hook to win the game  and the series, .
227_seattle seattle It was a hard loss for  fans who had pulled for their team all .
228_seattle seattle The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
229_seattle seattle In their  season with   as head coach and with half a roster comprised by rookies, the  finished the regular season in  place in the   with a – record and reached the playoffs for the  time in franchise history.
230_seattle seattle After defeating    in  games in   round in a best-of-five series,  team fell to   champions    in  games.
231_seattle seattle , the  pick, joined the   after  seasons with the   .
232_seattle seattle He then won the  championship with the  in .
233_seattle seattle He was also selected to    and   .
234_seattle seattle (then known as  ), the  pick, played for  teams in his   career and was selected to    and   .
235_seattle seattle , the  pick, was also drafted in the  ABA Draft.
236_seattle seattle He opted to joined the  with the   before moving to the  in .
237_seattle seattle His achievements include include    selection,   All-Star Game selections,   All-Star Game selections and   All-Defensive  selections.
238_seattle seattle from    , who went on to win  Rookie    Award in his  season, was selected  by   .
239_seattle seattle and  pick   are the only other players from this draft who was selected to an  .
240_seattle seattle After retiring as a player,  went on to have a coaching career.
241_seattle seattle He was twice named as the interim head coach for the   in  and   becoming a permanent head coach in .
242_seattle seattle The    last made the  Finals in , when they were still in  .
243_seattle seattle In   since, y moved to , briefly lost   to    , and named Warriors great   as head coach.
244_seattle seattle Before the start of the – season they traded  Hall of    to the   for young center  .
245_seattle seattle They also drafted  , then known as  , out of .
246_seattle seattle With  as the offensive leader, and with  using a team approach to coaching, the Warriors managed to finish the season atop the Western Conference with  wins.
247_seattle seattle In the playoffs, they defeated the   in  games, then eliminated  and the  in  games to advance to the Finals.
248_seattle seattle The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
249_seattle seattle The  finished  seson in  plce in    with  – record,  sme s    nd reched  plyoffs for   consecutive seson, where y lost to    in   Semifinls in  gmes.
250_seattle seattle On   the   came to    to face the Stars.
251_seattle seattle The game went into overtime and the  pulled it out, .
252_seattle seattle In a sign of what was to come for the Stars later in the season, the  later filed a lawsuit against the Stars, claiming that  failed to pay the  a guaranteed $17,000 for playing the game at the Salt Palace.
253_seattle seattle , on  , the Stars went on the road to face the   again, this time in .
254_seattle seattle scored  points for the    won .
255_seattle seattle from the    was selected  overall by the  .
256_seattle seattle from     , who went on to win  Rookie    Award in his  season, was selected  by   .
257_seattle seattle players from this draft, ,  pick  ,  pick   and  pick  , have been inducted to the Basketball Hall of Fame.
258_seattle seattle Parish was also named to the list of the  Greatest Players in  History announced at the league's th anniversary in .
259_seattle seattle was selectod to    and   .
260_seattle seattle Parish won   championships with    in  .
261_seattle seattle Later in his career, he added another championship in  with the  .
262_seattle seattle His other achievements include    selections and    selections.
263_seattle seattle 's achievements include    selections and    selections.
264_seattle seattle won the  championships, along with the Finals Most Valuable Player Award, with the   in .
265_seattle seattle He n won  or championships with   in  .
266_seattle seattle He was selected to   ,    and   .
267_seattle seattle With  fortifying the center position, and with new addition   and    providing the scoring punch, the  reached the playoffs for only the  time, finishing with  wins.
268_seattle seattle The  defeated    in  games of  conference semifinals, before achieving a major upset in dethroning   's champions     in  games.
269_seattle seattle The  made it to their  NBA Finals.
270_seattle seattle () "Golden State Warriors", () " " & () " " have  round byes.
271_seattle seattle from   was selected  overall by the  .
272_seattle seattle from     , who went on to win  Rookie    Award in his  season, was selected  by   .
273_seattle seattle was also selected to both the   and the   in his  season.
274_seattle seattle He collected a total of    selections and    selections.
275_seattle seattle other players from this draft,  pick  ,  pick   and  pick  , were also selected to both the   and the  .
276_seattle seattle was selected to    and   ;  was selected to    and   s; and King was selected to    and   s.
277_seattle seattle , the  pick, won the  championship with the   in  and was selected to  consecutive  .
278_seattle seattle , the  pick,  , the  pick, and  , the  pick, are the only other players from this draft who were selected to an  .
279_seattle seattle players drafted went on to have coaching careers in the :  pick   and  pick  .
280_seattle seattle has coached  teams in  seasons, including  seasons with the  .
281_seattle seattle The Blazers won  games in    season, but   suffered   of a series of devastating foot injuries late in  season and was lost for much of  .
282_seattle seattle won the league's MVP, but the  missed his leadership and savvy, losing in  games of the conference finals to the  .
283_seattle seattle The  made the Finals the next  seasons, winning in .
284_seattle seattle The Blazers would not make the finals again until .
285_seattle seattle As for , he forced to sit the  season after his request for a trade was denied, citing unethical treatment of player injuries by the Blazers' front office.
286_seattle seattle signed with     season, but only made sporadic appearances for    .
287_seattle seattle His career would be revived in , winning anor championship in   while winning    Man of  .
288_seattle seattle The "–  season" was the  season of the   .
289_seattle seattle The season ended with the  Bullets winning the  Championship, beating the    games to  in the  Finals.
290_seattle seattle The "–" season was the  season of the  Trail Blazers in the    ().
291_seattle seattle Fresh off their    win the previous season, the Blazers led the league with a franchise-best – record, earning a -round bye in the   Playoffs.
292_seattle seattle However, they were defeated by the eventual   champion    games to .
293_seattle seattle The "–   season" was the  season of the franchise in the    ().
294_seattle seattle With a disappointing – start, the  replaced coach   with  Hall of   , who led the team to a –3 finish.
295_seattle seattle After upsetting the defending champions    in the   , the  made their  trip to the  Finals, where they fell to the  Bullets in  games.
296_seattle seattle ()  76ers vs. () "Washington Bullets": "Bullets win series " After being swept in their previous trip to the  Finals, the Bullets lost Game  on the road against the  , and a 9-point lead vanished in the process.
297_seattle seattle In Game , the Bullets rose to the occasion beating the   to even the series at  games apiece.
298_seattle seattle After losing Game  in , the  kept their hopes alive with a dominating  win at the Capital Centre.
299_seattle seattle Game  returned to  and the  were a heavy underdog.
300_seattle seattle suffered a sprained wrist above his shooting hand, and   was forced to see some action at guard.
301_seattle seattle would play strongly and scored  points to tie with  , who hit a half court shot at      , for  team high.
302_seattle seattle scored  points while pulling down  rebounds as the Bullets emerged with a 105- victory to win their  NBA Championship.
303_seattle seattle With   left,  whittled the lead from  points down to , but   came up with a three-point play.
304_seattle seattle , who finished with  points off the bench, hit a short jumper, then   got a tip-in to cut it to .
305_seattle seattle then fouled  , a 55-percent shooter from the line during the playoffs.
306_seattle seattle He hit  free throws, and moments later  sealed it with a   dunk, .
307_seattle seattle The , behind  's  and  's  points, held a 19-point lead in    at    .
308_seattle seattle But, the  staged a comeback in front of the home crowd, led by "instant offense" guard  .
309_seattle seattle scored  points in     to finish with  and give    win.
310_seattle seattle The "    " was the championship round of the   season.
311_seattle seattle The   had a disappointing start to the season, going – to begin with.
312_seattle seattle , who replced former   center   s coch, ws fired nd   returned for   tour of duty.
313_seattle seattle The  were led by center  , forwards  ,   and  son, and guards  son and  .
314_seattle seattle With ' experience being a key factor, the  turned their season around, finishing with  wins and the  seed in the West.
315_seattle seattle In the playoffs, they defeated the    in a three-game miniseries, then upset the top-seeded and defending champion    in  games, before announcing their finals debut with a -game win over the  .
316_seattle seattle The " NBA Playoffs" was the postseason tournament of the   's  season.
317_seattle seattle The tournament concluded with the Eastern  champion  Bullets defeating the   champion    games to  in the  Finals.
318_seattle seattle was named  Finals MVP.
319_seattle seattle To date, it remains the only  title that the  Bullets have ever won.
320_seattle seattle It was the   Finals appearance and  title for the , founded in .
321_seattle seattle The  made the Finals for the  time in their  existence.
322_seattle seattle This would be   of  straight meetings in  Finals between  Bullets and , with  winning  title   .
323_seattle seattle The "&ndash;   season" was the  season for the   of the    and the  time they reached the 50-win mark to end the regular season.
324_seattle seattle The tem repeted   plce finish in n expnded Pcific division nd the  's -best record, thus erning  spot in the plyoffs, the frnchise's  time extending the seson in bck-to-bck sesons.
325_seattle seattle For   time since  &ndash;76 team,   returned to    , before being dispatched by  division champion  in  games.
326_seattle seattle The  were led by head coach   and played all home games in  Veterans Memorial Coliseum.
327_seattle seattle () " Bullets" vs. ()   : "Bullets win series " The triumph would set up a rematch with the   in the  Finals.
328_seattle seattle In the Finals, the  would squeak out a close victory in Game  by a  of .
329_seattle seattle However, the  would rally to win the next  and take the series in  games.
330_seattle seattle The  won a close  in OT –, staving off a late  comeback behind  points by   and  by  .
331_seattle seattle and  dominated the Bullets' guards all series, as they were plagued by poor shooting.
332_seattle seattle also had  blocks in the game, the last on   with   left to ensure the  victory.
333_seattle seattle dominated this game, which wasn't as close as the final margin indicated.
334_seattle seattle scored  points,   had , and   had a fine all-around game with  points,  rebounds, and  blocked shots.
335_seattle seattle The  controlled the game and led by  in the , but  mounted a furious comeback to tie it at . , who had  points off the bench, drove to the basket as time ran down and had his shot blocked by  , but the referees called a foul on , sending  to the line with   left.
336_seattle seattle hit  of  foul shots (NBA rules at the time awarded an extra free throw attempt when a team was in the penalty foul situation) to win the game.
337_seattle seattle This was a rematch of the   Finals, which the Bullets won –.
338_seattle seattle made a key offseason trade sending   to the    for  .
339_seattle seattle Other than that, both teams' rosters stayed virtually intact.
340_seattle seattle Unlike   , both teams finished  in  , with   topping  league at  wins;   with  wins.
341_seattle seattle In the playoffs,  defeated the    – and the   –, while  eliminated the   – and the    –.
342_seattle seattle Both earned a first-round bye.
343_seattle seattle The " NBA Playoffs" was the postseason tournament of the   's  season.
344_seattle seattle The tournament concluded with the   champion   defeating the Eastern  champion    games to  in the  Finals.
345_seattle seattle The  earned their  (and as of , only) NBA title.
346_seattle seattle was named  Finals MVP.
347_seattle seattle The  earned the top pick of the  NBA Draft (traded as compensation by the    after signing   in ) and selected   from  State.
348_seattle seattle While Magic dazzled in his rookie season,  would enjoy an MVP campaign in the  – regular season.
349_seattle seattle In the playoffs, the  eliminated the   and erstwhile defending champions   in a pair of five-game series to advance to the  Finals.
350_seattle seattle The "  season" was the '  season in the  and  season as a franchise.
351_seattle seattle was the winner of a  scoring title in   with  points per game.
352_seattle seattle The  won their  straight division title with a record of .
353_seattle seattle In the playoffs the  beat the   in  games.
354_seattle seattle In the  , the Spurs would be swept in  straight by the   .
355_seattle seattle The  had a  round bye.
356_seattle seattle () "  " vs. ()  SuperSonics: " win series " () "Los Angeles Lakers" vs. ()   : "Lakers win series 4-0"
357_seattle seattle ()   vs. () " Trail Blazers": "Blazers win series –" () "Los Angeles " vs. ()  Trail Blazers: " win series –"
358_seattle seattle The "  season" was the Kings  season in the  and their  season in the city of  .
359_seattle seattle The  finished with a  record, placing them in  place in the  Division, and in a three-way tie for  place in the 's  , along with the   and the   .
360_seattle seattle As a result, the Kings did not qualify for the  Playoffs in their final season in  .
361_seattle seattle This draft is also known for the number of players who made important contributions to the sport of basketball outside of the court.
362_seattle seattle For example,   had a highly successful run with the   as a player and then as head coach, and then spent  seasons as head coach of the   .
363_seattle seattle is the  coach of the   and also the  coach to lead the   to the playoffs in the  era.
364_seattle seattle , a former Bucks head coach, was hired in   as the new head coach at the   .
365_seattle seattle won  championship rings with  different  teams ( ,   and   ) before becoming  of the hosts of "The Best Damn  Show Period" on   .
366_seattle seattle is an  college basketball analyst.
367_seattle seattle served as an assistant coach at  , a shooting consultant with  ( season) and  ( seasons), a shooting coach for   ( season), and in   was named Player Development Coach for the  .
368_seattle seattle As for the Rockets, their stay at the top of the   would only be temporary, as   fell down with a knee injury that eventually curtailed his career.
369_seattle seattle The  would only win  games, and were bounced out of the playoffs'  round by the  .
370_seattle seattle The 'Twin Towers' were disbanded after  was traded to the    early in the   season.
371_seattle seattle The Rockets would not return to the finals until their championship season of .
372_seattle seattle Thanks to the  trade of   and the subsequent  of the  , at the end of the  the  owned not only the best team in the  but also the  pick in the   Draft.
373_seattle seattle The  drafted   with the pick and had high hopes for the young    star.
374_seattle seattle Fans believed Bias had superstar potential, and that he would be the perfect complement to the aging, but still strong, .
375_seattle seattle The hope was that his presence would ensure that the franchise would remain a powerhouse after Bird,  and Parish retired.
376_seattle seattle Unfortunately,  died   after he was drafted, after using cocaine at a party and overdosing.
377_seattle seattle It would be the  in a long string of bad luck for the .
378_seattle seattle The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the   .
379_seattle seattle returned for his  season as head coach of the franchise and, despite little improvement over their previous season's – record, managed to clinch a spot in the playoffs and reach the   , losing in  games to the   .
380_seattle seattle The 's    was played on   197 at 's Kingdome.
381_seattle seattle power forward   was the game's MVP.
382_seattle seattle After being eliminted in the Western Conference Finls  yer erlier, the Lkers returned to the  Finls nd were rewrded with homecourt dvntge, besting the  by ccumulting   record.
383_seattle seattle During the season head coach   made an offensive adjustment by assigning guard   as the focal point of the offense, while acquiring   from the    before the trade deadline in a successful effort to lessen center  's  heading into the post-season.
384_seattle seattle The  swept the  , then beat the    in , before earning another playoff sweep against the   in the conference finals.
385_seattle seattle With the well-rested  coming off a four-game sweep of the   and a tired and hobbled  team coming off a grueling seven-game win over the  , the result was anticlimactic.
386_seattle seattle led a  victory with  points,  assists,  rebounds and no turnovers.
387_seattle seattle , on the receiving end of many of 's passes, had  points and  rebounds.
388_seattle seattle The  ran  fast breaks in     and led by  at intermission.
389_seattle seattle was indisputably great, and , who led the league in total rebounds (), was outstanding.
390_seattle seattle Still, the  lacked a quality supporting cast.
391_seattle seattle They took a major step toward alleviating that problem at the   , when Vice President of Basketball Operations   acquired  players who would be vital cogs in 's  championship machine.
392_seattle seattle With  picks in the top ,  selected   at No.  and   at No. .
393_seattle seattle He then traded  and draft considerations to the   for  , whom the  had grabbed with the  pick.
394_seattle seattle and    '   engaged in a nip-and-tuck battle for  league's rebounding title, which came down to    of  regular season.
395_seattle seattle On   against ,  put the pressure on Cage by pulling down  rebounds, the second-highest total in  history behind  's  in .
396_seattle seattle , however,  grabbed  boards in a game against , just enough to edge  by the slimmest of margins,  per game to .
397_seattle seattle Cage played in  fewer games than , however, so  led   in total rebounds for    , with .
398_seattle seattle The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
399_seattle seattle It was  's  season with a winning percentage above ,
400_seattle seattle coaching the  to the  NBA Playoffs where they lost in  games to the   in the  round.
401_seattle seattle The Heat were formed and owned by a group headed by   and former  player  .
402_seattle seattle Former   assistant coach   was hired as the franchise's  head coach.
403_seattle seattle The Heat used their  pick to select former third-round pick   from the  .
404_seattle seattle Prior to the draft, the Heat agreed on a deal to select , who had not played in the  since the – season, from the  in exchange for a first-round pick in the  Draft.
405_seattle seattle The Heat also agreed  other deals not to select a particular player from the   , the   and  .
406_seattle seattle The Heat's other selections included  former first-round picks,  ,  ,   and  .
407_seattle seattle However,  and another draftee,  , were immediately traded to the   and   respectively.
408_seattle seattle The Heat also selected   center  , who had never played in the .
409_seattle seattle players from the expansion draft joined the Heat for their inaugural season, but only  played more than  seasons for the team.
410_seattle seattle played  seasons with the Heat until his  career ended in .
411_seattle seattle The  teams met again in the   Finals.
412_seattle seattle Heading into the rematch, the  took the league's best record with  wins; the  not far behind with  wins.
413_seattle seattle However, the  appear well-rested after sweeping the   playoff rounds against the   ,   and  , setting a playoff record  through the   rounds, an accomplishment the  would also achieve in .
414_seattle seattle The Pistons on the other hand won the   games of the playoffs, but were pushed by the   in the conference finals before winning in  games.
415_seattle seattle Prior to the season,   announced that the  season was to be his last.
416_seattle seattle Therefore his 'retirement tour' consisted of pregame tributes in every arena to pay homage to the retiring  captain.
417_seattle seattle The  won  games that , and steamrolled through the  finals, going  in a sweep of the   ,   and  .
418_seattle seattle won the MVP award that .
419_seattle seattle Prior to the season,  owner   offered naming rights to The Forum, which was accepted by the    and subsequently renamed the arena as the   Forum, which paved the way to a flurry of naming rights acquisitions in almost every sporting venue in the  .
420_seattle seattle During the season, the  had won their division, with   collecting his  MVP award.
421_seattle seattle The team swept the   playoff series (Pacific Division foes: , , and ), resulting in a rematch with the   in the Finals.
422_seattle seattle and   were injured, with  suffering a hamstring injury in practice before Game  and  pulling a hamstring during Game .The  had won  straight NBA championships in  and .
423_seattle seattle The season was highlighted by   setting a franchise record for points scored in  game, when on  , he scored  points on the road against  .
424_seattle seattle Just over   lter, he would brek his own record when he scored  ginst Settle on Mrch .
425_seattle seattle The "–   season"  season of the   in the    ().
426_seattle seattle It was  's last season as head coach of the  and the last full season of   in a  uniform, as he was traded midway through the following season.
427_seattle seattle finished the season with a – record, losing the  seed in the   to the  , who had the same record but were ahead after tie-breaks, and thus did not reach the playoffs.
428_seattle seattle The "  Draft" took place on    in     .
429_seattle seattle This draft produced only  perennial , .
430_seattle seattle Among the  picks,   is considered by far the best pick of the draft.
431_seattle seattle went on to be considered  of the greatest point guards of all time.
432_seattle seattle He became a nine-time , achieved   Defensive Player of   award in , won an   with    in  and holds many statistical records during his tenure with   defunct  .
433_seattle seattle However, fter dvncing to the    with  –  win over the   in the  round nd  – win over the   in the conference semifinls, the Blzers were denied   stright trip to the  , flling to the Lkers in  gmes.
434_seattle seattle The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
435_seattle seattle Head coach   was replaced by his former assistant
436_seattle seattle , and went on to occupy the desk of vice-president of   for , resigning   to accept a job as general manager of the  .
437_seattle seattle The Draft Lottery gave the  the No.  pick, that was used to select   point guard  .
438_seattle seattle Substantial changes were made on  roster,  by trading  referent   to    during    of competition, followed by  , whose off--court problems were  focus of much unwanted attention, who was sent to , and forward Olden Polynice to    , both trades occurring  after   break.
439_seattle seattle would finish with a – record like the previous season, this time being able to reach the playoffs as the  seed in the  , where they lost in the  round against the    in  games.
440_seattle seattle The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
441_seattle seattle It was  's  season as head coach of the , returning after a  absence from coaching in the , to replace   .
442_seattle seattle finished the season with a – record, reaching the playoffs as the  seed in the  , where they lost the  semifinals to the   in  games.
443_seattle seattle The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
444_seattle seattle With   in its  season as the  coach, the team improved their – record from the previous season to – and reached the  Playoffs as the  seed in the Western Conference.
445_seattle seattle After defeating the   and the   in the   rounds, they lost the   against the    .
446_seattle seattle Frustrated by the constant losing and the desire to play for a contender,  demanded a trade, which he got when he was traded to the   for  ,   and  .
447_seattle seattle Moving to the then-brand new    from the    , the  would win  games in the – season, a franchise record.
448_seattle seattle 's efforts won him the MVP award.
449_seattle seattle The playoffs, however, were no cakewalk for the , as they lost the   games to the    at home before winning  straight.
450_seattle seattle In the  round the  defeated the    in , and were again pushed to a decisive game by the   before ultimately winning in the conference finals.
451_seattle seattle For the , it was their  NBA finals appearance since  and  overall.
452_seattle seattle The "Scotts Mills earthquake" also known as the "" Break Quake"" occurred in the  state of  on    at 5:34    .
453_seattle seattle With a local magnitude of  and a maximum perceived intensity of VII ("Very Strong") on the  intensity scale, it was the largest earthquake in the   since the   and Goat Rocks earthquakes of .
454_seattle seattle Ground motion was widely felt in 's  , the  metropolitan area, and as far north as the Puget Sound area near , .
455_seattle seattle In ,   shocked the  by announcing his retirement.
456_seattle seattle This meant that various teams in the league had an opportunity to contend for a championship.
457_seattle seattle The  hired Hall of Famer   as their new coach.
458_seattle seattle was a star guard for the franchise when it was based in   in the 's.
459_seattle seattle was quickly moving up the all-time coaching wins list after successful runs with the   and  .
460_seattle seattle employed a defensive system which benefited several members of the team.
461_seattle seattle Guards   and   were both named to the  All-Defensive team.
462_seattle seattle The  would emerge in  place when the  half of the season was complete.
463_seattle seattle Despite being in  place in , the  would trade franchise leading scorer   to the    for  .
464_seattle seattle By the end of the season, the  finished  overall in the Eastern Conference with a record of  wins and  losses.
465_seattle seattle Entering the playoffs, the  struggled, as they needed the full  games to get  the   in the Eastern Conference quarterfinals.
466_seattle seattle In the Eastern Conference semifinals, the  were upset by the   in  games.
467_seattle seattle The  posted a  record and made the playoffs for the  time in  .
468_seattle seattle The Nuggets qualified for the playoffs as the  seed.
469_seattle seattle The  round saw the Nuggets matched up with the  .
470_seattle seattle The  had posted a league best  record.
471_seattle seattle The  lost the   games of the series.
472_seattle seattle Upon arriving in , the  used the shot blocking presence of   to match up with the .
473_seattle seattle Along with career performances by  ,  , and  , the  evened the series.
474_seattle seattle The series went back to  for the  game.
475_seattle seattle The Nuggets rallied to tie the game and force overtime.
476_seattle seattle The Nuggets would emerge with a 1-point victory and became the   seeded team to beat a # 1 seed.
477_seattle seattle To punctuate the win,  was on his back holding the ball and smiling after the buzzer.
478_seattle seattle In the  round, the  dropped their   games to the  .
479_seattle seattle Despite the threat of elimination, the  would rally to win the next  games and force a  game.
480_seattle seattle The postseason run would end as they lost .
481_seattle seattle The "   season" was 's  season in the .
482_seattle seattle The Pacers would undergo several changes as the club traded fan favorite   to the   for  .
483_seattle seattle The Pacers would play
484_seattle seattle ball until .
485_seattle seattle By winning the final  games of the season, the Pacers were able to grab the  seed in the   and close out the season with a  record.
486_seattle seattle The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
487_seattle seattle In the  season with   as head coach the  finished the season with a franchise best – record and made the Playoffs as the number  seed in the   for the  time since the 78– season, where the Super won their   .
488_seattle seattle However, the  didn't make it  the  round, losing to the   in  games after taking a – lead in the series.
489_seattle seattle It was the  time in  Playoffs history that a number  seed defeated a number  seeded team.
490_seattle seattle , then named , was drafted  overall by the   in the  NBA Draft.
491_seattle seattle quickly rose into an  All-Star, and in his  season, he led the  to the   Finals, where they would lose in  games to the  .
492_seattle seattle However the  would gradually dismantle that team, and by , only  remained from that  squad.
493_seattle seattle Midway to the – season   took over as head coach and almost led the team to the playoffs.
494_seattle seattle By  the  were on the rise, with  transforming into an all-around player while remaining a defensive presence in the paint.
495_seattle seattle The Rockets would come within a game of the conference finals that , losing to the   in  games.
496_seattle seattle The  then started – the next season en route to a – record, finishing behind  in the West.
497_seattle seattle In the playoffs they defeated the    –, the   – (after losing the   games at home), and the   – to advance to the finals.
498_seattle seattle The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
499_seattle seattle After a shocking  round exit in the    against the   the  franchise would  again exit early in the  , losing in  games to the    in the  round.
500_seattle seattle For the duration of the season, the  switched venues and played their home games at the   while their original stadium, the   , was being rebuilt to keep pace with  standards.
501_seattle seattle The Rockets' championship reign would   , where they were swept by the     games of the  round.
502_seattle seattle The  were also the last team to beat the  in the playoffs prior to their  championship reign, when they defeated them in  games of the  round in .
503_seattle seattle That , the  won  games and achieved the  seed.
504_seattle seattle The following offseason, the  attempted to make it back to the finals by adding former NBA MVP  .
505_seattle seattle However, age and injuries would take its toll, and the closest the  would achieve after their  championship reign was a six-game loss to the   in the    .
506_seattle seattle As of , this is the ' last NBA Finals appearance.
507_seattle seattle The "–  season" was the  season of the    (), although the league didn't celebrate this anniversary until the following season.
508_seattle seattle The season ended with the   defeating the    games to  in the  Finals to win the franchise's th championship.
509_seattle seattle The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
510_seattle seattle After  consecutive playoffs appearances losing in the  round, the  finished the regular with a franchise best – record, surpassing the record from the – season, and earned their  number  seed in the   in franchise history.
511_seattle seattle Led by   and Defensive Player of    ,   defeated    in   round, swept  reigning champions   and got     in  games in  Conference Finals to reach ir  NBA Finals since , where y would face   .
512_seattle seattle After an – start in the series,  managed to win their next  home games, but eventually lost the series in game  in .
513_seattle seattle The "  Finals" was the championship series of the   season of the   .
514_seattle seattle The   (–) of the   took on the   (–) of the  , with the  holding home court advantage.
515_seattle seattle The series was played under a best-of-seven format.
516_seattle seattle The  , coached by   and led by All-Stars   and  , emerged as contenders in the   by .
517_seattle seattle The  broke through in the   Playoffs, pushing the eventual   champion   to a  game in the conference finals.
518_seattle seattle Then in the – season, the  finished atop the league with  victories.
519_seattle seattle However, in the greatest playoff upset in  history, the  lost  games to  to the  seeded  , who finished 1 games behind  in the West.
520_seattle seattle would  again be upset in the  round of the  playoffs against the   .
521_seattle seattle By this time,  had a formidable  duo in  and , plus role players in Detlef Schrempf,  ,   and  .
522_seattle seattle Game  was fortunate for  in   , with a – lead.
523_seattle seattle However  would  again lose the lead.
524_seattle seattle Despite attempts at catching up by   in   ,   clinched  ' win in   , with a final  of  to .
525_seattle seattle In the victory,   tied an  Finals record with  offensive rebounds.
526_seattle seattle would  again deny the Bulls the championship, stretching the series to  games.
527_seattle seattle had this to say: "We feel great.
528_seattle seattle We knew we could play with this team.
529_seattle seattle It just took too long.
530_seattle seattle We should have come with this a little earlier."
531_seattle seattle [http://www.nba.com/history/finals/19951996.html]
532_seattle seattle 's performance in this game was considered by many to be his best in a  uniform.
533_seattle seattle The   Finals would be the last Finals appearance of the  .
534_seattle seattle The  would win the  Division again in  and , but fell to the  round of the playoffs each time.
535_seattle seattle The series was  's only Finals appearance in his coaching career to date.
536_seattle seattle In , the  franchise moved to   and became the Thunder.
537_seattle seattle They would make the finals    after the move.
538_seattle seattle This was also the last time a  team played for a major professional sports championship until Super Bowl XL in , when the   lost to the  .
539_seattle seattle In terms of overall sports leagues, the city would later enjoy a pair of championships when the  's  , a one-time  sister team, won both the  and   Finals.
540_seattle seattle In the playoffs, the  lost only  games in  series, defeating  ,  , head coach   and their   in the  Finals to win the  Championship.
541_seattle seattle The  won the   games of the best-of-seven series, but the  rallied back to win the next  at home.
542_seattle seattle Eventually, the more experienced  proved to be too much as the  captured their  title (after a  hiatus).
543_seattle seattle For his performance in the series against ,   was named the Finals MVP.
544_seattle seattle The " NBA Playoffs" was the postseason tournament of the   's  season.
545_seattle seattle The tournament concluded with the Eastern  champion   defeating the   champion    games to .  was named  Finals MVP for a record  time.
546_seattle seattle The "–   season" was the  season of the   in the    ().
547_seattle seattle After an – start, coach   was replaced by former  guard  , who led the team to a 4– finish.
548_seattle seattle As the  seed in the  , the  faced the   in the  round of the Playoffs, losing – in a closely contested series.
