0_dallas dallas On  , a tropical storm developed in the Bay of .
1_dallas dallas Moving generally towards the west-northwest, the storm reached a peak intensity of  mph ( km/h) on  , while approaching landfall in  .
2_dallas dallas Shortly thereafter, the storm made landfall and quickly weakened into a tropical depression.
3_dallas dallas Moving northward through  , the storm dissipated on  , while located to the southwest of the  ,  area.
4_dallas dallas The storm was responsible for destroying the   lighthouse and for  fatality.
5_dallas dallas On , rainfall from this storm and a subsequent tropical depression were the heaviest in  , which caused rivers to overflow and flooded parts of the island.
6_dallas dallas Several boats were damaged or driven ashore from rough seas.
7_dallas dallas The  storms caused damage to fields, highways, and houses, and caused the loss of crops such as cocoa and bananas.
8_dallas dallas In all, damage totaled $3 million ( USD) and there were  deaths on .
9_dallas dallas The storm produced heavy rainfall in eastern , including a record  total of  in the Corporate Area, and   received  in  .
10_dallas dallas This flooded and damaged properties and water systems in  and Saint , leading to a water famine until the water mains were fixed.
11_dallas dallas Damage totaled to over $2.5 million ( USD, $  USD), and  people were reported killed due to the flooding.
12_dallas dallas Damage was minimal in both  and .
13_dallas dallas The  tropical storm of the season (initially classified as  separate storms but later identified as a single track) was  observed on   near  .
14_dallas dallas It moved quickly westward and passed just south of   and  as a weak storm.
15_dallas dallas The system curved slightly to the west-northwest and brushed the northern coast of  before turning slightly westward and hitting the  state of  .
16_dallas dallas As it crossed the   the cyclone weakened and eventually crossed into the Bay of .
17_dallas dallas It moved quickly to the northwest, and made landfall near  , in  on   as a  mph ( km/h) tropical storm.
18_dallas dallas The system turned to the northeast, and became extratropical to the east of , .
19_dallas dallas The extratropical system moved slowly through northern , turned to the northeast, and dissipated over northeastern  near , .
20_dallas dallas . , Univ. of   –  feet,  inches (new  meet record) . ,  –  feet, ¾ inches . ,   –  feet, ½ inches
21_dallas dallas The contrast between the  air masses was stark, and by the morning of   the cold front was about halfway through .
22_dallas dallas At 6 am CST, the temperature in the western  city of  had dropped to  degrees with a strong northerly breeze.
23_dallas dallas Farther east in  the temperature was  in  – a 42-degree temperature difference over about  miles.
24_dallas dallas In the northern  , morning lows were much colder.
25_dallas dallas Temperatures were in the single digits across  and  and in the teens   and  .
26_dallas dallas The " Colima- earthquake" was a Mw  earthquake which occurred on   at 15:36 UTC, off the coast of , .
27_dallas dallas At least  people died and  were injured because of the earthquake.
28_dallas dallas The earthquake triggered a tsunami, which affected a  km stretch of the coast.
29_dallas dallas The Cihuatlan-Manzanillo area, , was more severely affected than other areas.
30_dallas dallas The earthquake could be felt in   and in high-rise buildings in  and .
31_dallas dallas The intensities in  and  reached MM VI.
32_dallas dallas formed in the western Gulf of  on  .
33_dallas dallas It briefly drifted south, but then turned north and then northwest.
34_dallas dallas It made landfall north of  ,  on   as a moderately strong tropical storm.
35_dallas dallas It weakened to a tropical depression as it travelled north, and dissipated north of , .
36_dallas dallas At least  people were killed,  injured, about  were left homeless,  houses were destroyed and   were damaged.
37_dallas dallas Most of the aths and damage occurred in the    area of .
38_dallas dallas Extensive damage (rating ) occurred in  the city of  and in .
39_dallas dallas Some deaths and damage occurred in the states of  and  and a few buildings were damaged as far away as  and .
40_dallas dallas The quake was felt strongly (rating VI) in parts of  .
41_dallas dallas It was also felt in most of  and in the   in  , , ,  and  , .
42_dallas dallas Occupants of high-rise buildings in ,  also reported feeling its effects.
43_dallas dallas Landslides closed a segment of the Colima-Guadalajara Highway and the port of .
44_dallas dallas Power and telephone outages occurred in  .
45_dallas dallas A local tsunami of about  m (peak-to-trough) was recorded at .
46_dallas dallas A seiche was observed on   in the  state of , and sediment was stirred up in several  wells.
47_dallas dallas , ; , ; the   region; and other areas have reported damage such as ruptured water lines and buckled roads.
48_dallas dallas The heat wave has been blamed for the damage.
49_dallas dallas Interstate  had  traffic lanes temporarily closed in   after they buckled under the heat.
50_dallas dallas In addition, overworked power transformers have been damaged or rendered useless because of the heat, resulting in blackouts, notably in  , ; ,  ;  , ; and the  .
51_dallas dallas Some wildfires, including forest fires, and greater thunderstorm intensity, have both been blamed on the heat wave.
52_dallas dallas Early on the morning of  , a squall line developed across eastern  northward into  and moved east towards the high risk area.
53_dallas dallas Ahead of the squall line, the cap took longer than expected to break, but when it finally did in the late afternoon , numerous supercell thunderstorms quickly formed across  and southern .
54_dallas dallas The  tornadoes touched down around 3:30 pm CST ( UTC).
55_dallas dallas A cap is a layer of relatively warm air aloft (usually several  feet above the ground) which suppresses or delays the development of thunderstorms; the cap often prevents or delays thunderstorm development even in the presence of extreme instability.
56_dallas dallas However, if the cap is removed or weakened, then explosive thunderstorm development can occur.
57_dallas dallas Some of the most powerful tornado producing supercells were situated across the  and  areas, as well as central  ( producing a tornado that tracked  miles ( km) and lasting   ) between 5:00 and 7:30 pm CST ( to  UTC) while numerous other tornadoes were reported across northern  northwest of ,  early in the evening.
58_dallas dallas As the evening progressed,  of these supercells traveled across   including the  metropolitan area and south-central , where several deadly tornadoes were reported during the evening  between 7:30 pm and 11:00 pm CST ( to  UTC).
59_dallas dallas Meanwhile, the squall line that developed from near  to   moved eastward throughout the late evening and overnight  causing numerous reports of damaging wind along with many spin-up tornadoes from  to  and .
60_dallas dallas It then moved through the southeast  during the early morning .
61_dallas dallas Additional strong thunderstorms developed ahead of the front across the southeast during the overnight and early morning .
62_dallas dallas A record (at the time) of  tornado emergency declarations were issued on  ;  for , and  in .
63_dallas dallas The storm was so intense that it wrapped warm air around the north and west side of it and cold air and snow blew in from the south.
64_dallas dallas , , in the northern half of the storm, saw rain with temperatures in the mid 's Fahrenheit while snow was falling just to the west in a  band stretching from  south to at least , , giving that region its  "White " since .
65_dallas dallas Interstate  was completely closed in  and  , and then in stretches into .
66_dallas dallas On    a storm producing  tornadoes swept across  with the  tornado (F0) passing .5 miles east of the high school barely missing the incorporated city limits.
67_dallas dallas The tornado (F) touched down in neighboring unincorporated ,  and , , destroying many homes and killing .
68_dallas dallas During the disaster, several volunteers from      worked with the    in a Skywarn net.
69_dallas dallas and Fire Departments along with the    opened    up as a shelter to the "walking wounded" and anyone who needed a place to stay due to the road blockages and damage in that area.
70_dallas dallas The tornadoes could be seen from ,  , and  and power was knocked out to several homes in the area.
71_dallas dallas Sirens sounded for  residents twice, giving people time to take shelter and prepare for the storm.
72_dallas dallas Media and many of the volunteers from around the   area set up in .
73_dallas dallas Another major tornado event struck the densely populated areas of the –   on    when F tornadoes struck    as well as  killing at least  and injuring dozens of people while damaging or destroying several structures including several office towers.
74_dallas dallas Additional tornadoes that touched down near  Metroplex area    in   and or areas but no additional fatalities were reported.
75_dallas dallas The tornado was heavily documented and photographed by several eye-witnesses as it was clearly visible throughout most of its 17-mile path through residential and commercial areas of  up to near   .
76_dallas dallas At that time, it was the most observed tornado ever.
77_dallas dallas A researcher from the     in   noticed that several old theories were proven false during the  tornado.
78_dallas dallas of the theories was that all air and debris flow inward into the funnel and then upward, but on the outside edges of the funnel debris and people were even lifted.
79_dallas dallas in  produced a  documentary  the tornado    .
80_dallas dallas At around 3:00 PM CST, the  tornadoes touched down north of the    area.
81_dallas dallas At around 4:30 CST, a tornado touched down in southern   (south of modern-day Interstate ) and traveled northward for    through the  neighborhoods of  ,  ,   (just west of  ) and   before lifting over   (west of    ) just after 5:00 PM CST.
82_dallas dallas people were killed and  others injured by the F3 tornado; damage was estimated at around $4 million (in  dollars).
83_dallas dallas Nearly  structures were damaged including over  homes and a  apartment buildings.
84_dallas dallas Some businesses and schools were also damaged but the Parkland Memorial Hospital was narrowly spared by the tornado as was the    .
85_dallas dallas Another tornado in   north of the city also caused extensive damage.
86_dallas dallas The "   tornado outbreak" was a deadly tornado outbreak that struck most      from   to       .
87_dallas dallas The outbreak was most notable due to a tornado that hit a densely populated area of the  Metropolitan area, while other deadly tornadoes struck portions of , , and .
88_dallas dallas The  outbreak killed at least  across  states and produced  tornadoes from  to .
89_dallas dallas The "  tornado outbreak" was a widespread tornado outbreak that affected much of the Central and   of the   as well as the  and the Deep South from  to   from   to   .
90_dallas dallas The entire outbreak killed at least  people across  states from  different F4 tornadoes near ,  and , .
91_dallas dallas Several storm thunderstorm cells known as supercells were responsible for most of the tornadoes during the event.
92_dallas dallas Several scattered strg storms/supercells developed during the afterno and late-evening    .
93_dallas dallas The most notable storm of   produced several tornadoes across    area.
94_dallas dallas The  tornado touchdown in the   area but caused little if any damage.
95_dallas dallas An F2 tornado shortly caused extensive damage to the town of DeSoto in  .
96_dallas dallas Numerous structures were destroyed and the City Hall itself sustained major damage that totaled about $50 million.
97_dallas dallas No fatalities were reported by this tornado.
98_dallas dallas However, further east, the same storm intensified and produced a violent F4 tornado that traveled through the  area killing  and injured nearly  others while destroying much of the historic downtown square.
99_dallas dallas In addition to the tornadoes, extensive hail was recorded across much of the Metroplex region.
100_dallas dallas Total tornado and hail figures in  alone on this date was estimated at $300 million.
101_dallas dallas What was initially believed to be a wind and hail event from reliable models and forecast unexpectedly developed into a locally significant tornado outbreak as a result of changing mesoscale situations, concentrated on the heavily populated   .
102_dallas dallas That development was attributed to an outflow boundary from another area of storms farther north in  that tracked southward across the   and into the  where it stalled just south of the Interstate  corridor in the southern suburbs, allowing discrete supercells to form along the boundary.
103_dallas dallas The boundary increased low-level wind shear significantly due to easterly winds, allowing for tornadoes to develop.
104_dallas dallas As a result, taking advantage of the highly unstable environment that became much more highly sheared than initially forecasted with high CAPE values, the storms became much more intense than forecasted and quickly became tornadic and intense, resulting in severe damage across the region in heavily populated areas.
105_dallas dallas South of the boundary, shear was much more marginal and tornadoes did not develop.
106_dallas dallas the cells tracked eastward towards , the atmosphere was much more stable and the cells rapidly weakened.
107_dallas dallas The "   tornado outbreak" was a tornado outbreak across a portion of the   .
108_dallas dallas Several strong to mostly weak tornadoes touched down near  and   and points east.
109_dallas dallas This included an EF3 in ,  which devastated the   subdivision and a school in town.
110_dallas dallas It was estimated on   that over  homes were damaged in the outbreak, including at least  that were destroyed.
111_dallas dallas Remarkably, despite hitting heavily populated areas, no  was killed and very few people were injured.
112_dallas dallas company offers "holographic mylar" trees in many hues.
113_dallas dallas Tree-shaped objects made from such materials as cardboard, glass, ceramic or other materials can be found in use as tabletop decorations.
114_dallas dallas Upside-down artificial  trees were originally introduced as a marketing gimmick; they allowed consumers to get closer to ornaments for sale in retail stores as well as opened up floor space for more products.
115_dallas dallas There were  varieties of upside-down trees, those bolted to the ceiling, stand alone trees with a base, and half-trees bolted to walls.
116_dallas dallas The   consists of recrystalized, fossiliferous, interbedded chalks and marls.
117_dallas dallas Exposures of   are mainly seen in quarries, roadcuts, and stream beds where the water eroded the soil.
118_dallas dallas The   outcrops and can be seen throughout , and extends south underneath  down into  and  .
119_dallas dallas Volcanic ash layers are  in the  chalk, and were deposited by wind from distant erupting volcanoes around  mya.
120_dallas dallas These eruptions occurred along a 2-mile long by  mile wide belt of submarine volcanoes, which are located in   south-central .
121_dallas dallas This belt of volcanoes coincides with the trend of the  Fault zone and is known as the  volcanic province.
122_dallas dallas Evidence of these ancient volcanoes is only visible in a few places since most were buried by the  and  , and  are in the subsurface.
123_dallas dallas The presence of this volcanism during deposition of the   is correlated with the  orogeny.
124_dallas dallas Sea level rose for conditions to be right for the deposition of the  , which also coincides with the maximum extent of the Cretaceous Interior Seaway.
125_dallas dallas The depths of the deposition of the Austin Chalk occurred in ~ m or  ft of water.
126_dallas dallas The Austin Chalk is filled with micro-organism fossils known as coccoliths.
127_dallas dallas "Balcones Fault" was a  comedic  jazz band from ,  who took their name after the Balcones Fault zone in southwest-central .
128_dallas dallas Balcones Fault appeared frequently at the Armadillo World Headquarters.
129_dallas dallas The band appeared on the PBS music television program  City Limits in  and produced  album on the Cream label, titled "It's All Balcs Fault" in .
130_dallas dallas the album title was taken from a  radio show script written by  , who played trombone with the band in .
131_dallas dallas The    and Bend Arch lie entirely within north central  covering an area of .
132_dallas dallas The southern and eastern boundaries are defined by county lines that generally follow the  structural front, although a substantial portion of this structural feature is included near .
133_dallas dallas The north boundary follows the   line in the east, where the province includes parts of the   and  .
134_dallas dallas In the west, the north boundary follows the north-east county lines of 's  southwestern counties (,  and  ), which include the south flank of the   and the  .
135_dallas dallas The western boundary trends north-south along county lines defining the junction with the   where part of the eastern shelf of the   lies in Province .
136_dallas dallas The "Austin chalk" limestone uplift on which most of   is spread is covered with "gumbo"-cleche-clay topsoil from a few inches to many feet.
137_dallas dallas The western edge of the city, primarily the   neighborhood, falls below the limestone uplift on the Eagle Ford shale strata surrounding   .
138_dallas dallas Home foundation problems—similar to those in 's   neighborhood to the north and built on the same strata—await those who fail to take precautions in building on expansive soil lying over the   formation.
139_dallas dallas As noted in the demographics below (and like some of the cities immediately surrounding it such as  and DeSoto), the city is significantly diverse compared to other cities around  which tend to be predominantly of  ethnic origin or another.
140_dallas dallas In    ,  city has been booming with new construction as urban sprawl spreads south of .
141_dallas dallas Being mostly farm and ranch land, the terrain is largely open fields on flat-to-gently-rolling terrain.
142_dallas dallas The ambient air temperature is typically  to  F cooler than   south.
143_dallas dallas "Chorioactis geaster" has a disjunct distribution, and has only been collected from  and .
144_dallas dallas The  reported collection in  was in  in , and then it was not collected again in that location until   .
145_dallas dallas In , it was observed in a humid forest near ,  .
146_dallas dallas The fungus's natural habitat in  is disappearing because of the practice of deforestation and replanting with ese cedar ("Cryptomeria japonica").
147_dallas dallas This rare mushroom has been put on the list of threatened species in .
148_dallas dallas In , the fungus has been reported in  , , , , , , Tarrant and Hunt Counties.
149_dallas dallas , , and  counties are in central , while the remainder are clustered together in the northeastern part of the state.
150_dallas dallas Although the species is considered rare due to its globally restricted distribution, it may be locally abundant.
151_dallas dallas Although it is not known definitively, "Chorioactis" is believed to be saprobic, deriving nutrients from decomposing organic matter.
152_dallas dallas In , fruit bodies are found growing singly or in groups from roots, stumps, and dead roots of cedar elm trees ("Ulmus crassifolia") or "Symplocos myrtacea"; in , the usual host is dead oak trees.
153_dallas dallas Fruit bodies can be clustered together close to the base of the stump, or from the roots away from the stump; the stem of the fruit body tends to originate from a point  below the ground.
154_dallas dallas In , fruit bodies usually appear between   , as this period is associated with somewhat cooler weather,  the temperature  moisture conditions during this time seem to be more favorable for growth.
155_dallas dallas Other gimmicks have developed as well.
156_dallas dallas Fiber optic  trees come in  major varieties;  resembles a traditional  tree.
157_dallas dallas company offers "holographic mylar" trees in many hues.
158_dallas dallas Tree-shaped objects made from such materials as cardboard, glass, ceramic or other materials can be found in use as tabletop decorations.
159_dallas dallas Upside-down artificial  trees became popular for a short time and were originally introduced as a marketing gimmick; they allowed consumers to get closer to ornaments for sale in retail stores and opened up floor space for more products.
160_dallas dallas In ,  study projects that by  heat-related deaths during a typical  could triple, from about  heat-related deaths per  to over  (although increased air conditioning used during these periods may not have been accounted for).
161_dallas dallas Winter-related deaths are expected to change very little.
162_dallas dallas The elderly, particularly those living alone, are at greatest risk.
163_dallas dallas The city of  has a humid, hot climate and is often prone to storms (severe or not) (Köppen climate classification ), though it is located in a region that also tends to receive warm, dry winds from the north and west in the , bringing temperatures about  at times and heat-humidity indexes soaring to as high as .
164_dallas dallas A couple of times each year, warm and humid air from the south overrides cold, dry air, leading to freezing rain, which often causes major disruptions in the city if the roads and highways become slick.
165_dallas dallas On the other hand, daytime highs above  are not unusual during the  season.
166_dallas dallas In sum, extremes in weather are more readily seen in  and  as a whole than along the  and  coasts, due to the state's location in the interior of the  .
167_dallas dallas and  bring pleasant weather to the area.
168_dallas dallas Vibrant wildflowers (such as the bluebonnet,  paintbrush and other flora) bloom in  and are planted around the highways throughout .
169_dallas dallas Springtime weather can be quite volatile, but temperatures themselves are mild.
170_dallas dallas The weather in  is also generally pleasant between   and  , and unlike springtime, major storms rarely form in the area.
171_dallas dallas Since  lies at the lower end of the "Tornado Alley", tornadoes are perhaps the biggest threat to the city.
172_dallas dallas was hit by a powerful tornado on   .
173_dallas dallas The tornado would have likely been an F3.
174_dallas dallas On    the “  Tornado” impacted 's neighbor  's downtown and a tornado in   also occurred that  damaging some homes.
175_dallas dallas That  was the 's most damaging tornado outbreak since the  event.
176_dallas dallas Another widespread tornado outbreak struck the area in the  tornado outbreak of    slightly damaging   in  and damaging some planes and grounding the others at -Fort    and    heavily damaging an elementary school and destroying semis in a facility.
177_dallas dallas Unlike ,  is not in Tornado Alley.
178_dallas dallas Smaller tornadoes can occur during severe weather.
179_dallas dallas They are most likely to be found along frontal boundaries of an air mass during the  .
180_dallas dallas Tornadoes in  usually measure a weak F1 on the old  scale, and cause light to moderate damage to well-constructed buildings.
181_dallas dallas The strongest recorded tornado in  history was an F4 on    part of a large outbreak of tornadoes.
182_dallas dallas The worst cold snap to occur statewide occurred durg       .
183_dallas dallas stations recorded their longest continuous readings at or below  on record.
184_dallas dallas At , , the temperature remained at or below freezing for  .
185_dallas dallas At , , the period at or below freezing totaled  .
186_dallas dallas ,  saw temperatures at or below freezing for  .
187_dallas dallas The   airport measured temperatures at or below freezing for a total of  consecutive .
188_dallas dallas Snow which fell on   and   across northern  stayed on the ground until     .
189_dallas dallas The Model “S”, here as illustrated in , is an example of an early model convection space heater, by the      in  , .
190_dallas dallas The Model "S" was considered to be highly efficient radiant type of gas heater at the time.
191_dallas dallas The heater utilizes radiant heat, and, by virtue of draft construction, supplements its power by drawing cold air through the facing, heating it and forcing it into the room through the register.
192_dallas dallas This not only forces the circulation that provides an even warmth in every section of the room, but enables the heater to operate at all times with a perfectly cool exterior.
193_dallas dallas Positive circulation provides an even warmth throughout the room, and guarantees a clean, humid, healthful air to occupants.
194_dallas dallas The mixing chamber, due to its exclusive construction, utilizes centrifugal force to insure a perfect mixture between the gas and air, which in turn provides complete combustion, thus preventing dangerous fumes.
195_dallas dallas After the gas leaves the mixing chamber it passes into a distribution chamber whose shape is such that an equal amount of gas passes into each jet, giving uniform flame height and intensity.
196_dallas dallas has a humid subtropical climate, though it is located in a region that also tends to receive warm, dry winds from the north and west in the , bringing temperatures well over  at times and heat-humidity indexes soaring to as high as .
197_dallas dallas When only temperature itself is accounted for, the north central  region where  is located is  of the hottest in the   during the  , usually trailing only the Mojave Desert basin of , southern , and southeastern .
198_dallas dallas in  are generally mild, with normal daytime highs ranging from  to  and normal nighttime lows falling in between  and .
199_dallas dallas with clear, sunny skies, a high of , and a low of  would thus be a very typical  during the .
200_dallas dallas However, strong cold fronts known s "Blue Northers" sometimes pss through the  region, plummeting nightly lows below  for     dys t  time nd keeping dytime highs in  struggle  surpss .
201_dallas dallas Snow accumulation is usually seen in  city at least  every winter, and snowfall generally occurs –  out of   for an annual average of .
202_dallas dallas Some areas in the region, however, receive more than that, while other areas receive negligible snowfall or none at all.
203_dallas dallas A couple of times each winter in , warm and humid air from the south will override cold, dry air, resulting in freezing rain or ice and causing disruptions in the city if the roads and highways become slick.
204_dallas dallas On the other hand, daytime highs above  are not unusual and will occur     each winter —roughly the same number of  each , , and  th low temperures fall below  or th high temperures fail to reach .
205_dallas dallas Over    ,  has averaged  annual nights at or below freezing, with    – holding  all-time record as having  fewest freezing nights, with .
206_dallas dallas During this same span of  , the temperature in the region has only twice dropped below , though it will generally fall below  about  every other year.
207_dallas dallas In sum, extremes and variations in  weather are more readily seen in  and  as a whole than along the  and  coasts, due to the state's location in the interior of the   continent and the lack of any mountainous terrain to the north to block out  weather systems.
208_dallas dallas and  bring pleasant weather to the area.
209_dallas dallas Vibrant wildflowers (such as the bluebonnet,  paintbrush and other flora) bloom in  and are planted around the highways throughout .
210_dallas dallas Springtime weather can be quite volatile, but temperatures themselves are mild.
211_dallas dallas The weather in  is also generally pleasant from   to   and on many  .
212_dallas dallas often brings more storms and tornado threat, but usually fewer and less severe than in .
213_dallas dallas The     places  in Plant Hardiness Zone 8a.
214_dallas dallas However, mild  temperatures in       have encouraged  horticulture of some cold-sensitive plants such as "Washingnia filifera" and "Washingnia robusta" palms.
215_dallas dallas According to the   ,  has the  highest air pollution among  cities, ranking it behind   and .
216_dallas dallas Much of the air pollution in  and the surrounding area comes from a hazardous materials incineration plant in the small town of  and from concrete installations in neighbouring  .
217_dallas dallas " " is a research scientist at the       and is part  the Holocene Impact Working Group.
218_dallas dallas The primary focus of her  research is on submarine impact craters and their contribution to climate change and megatsunamis.
219_dallas dallas She also has presented research regarding a large impact crater in the   .
220_dallas dallas On   009 the  ' practice facility collapsed during a wind storm.
221_dallas dallas The collapse left  Cowboys players and coaches injured.
222_dallas dallas The most serious injuries were special teams coach  , who suffered fractured cervical vertebrae and had surgery to stabilize fractured vertebrae in his neck, and  , the team's  scouting assistant, who was permanently paralyzed from the waist down after his spine was severed.
223_dallas dallas was an authority on volcanoes who served as direcr of the    from   .
224_dallas dallas He spent his entire career at the   , starting in .
225_dallas dallas worked in  and  before moving to the ,  area in .
226_dallas dallas He was chief of the geologic division from  until he was appointed director of the survey.
227_dallas dallas During his tenure, he expanded the scope of the survey's work on mineral resources, global change, water quality and mapping.
228_dallas dallas The distribution system of    (DWU) is  of the largest in the  .
229_dallas dallas As of  , DWU provided retail water service to just over   people within the  city limits.
230_dallas dallas The major distribution system facilities include  pump stations (including the high service pump stations at the  water treatment plants),  ground storage reservoirs,  elevated tanks, and  vault structures separate from the major facilities, in addition to over  of distribution and transmission main.
231_dallas dallas The distribution system is divided into  pressure zones to maintain adequate water pressures throughout the system.
232_dallas dallas There are  major pressure zones ( , North ,  , and South ), and  smaller secondary pressure zones (Meandering Way ,   ,  , Pleasant Grove, and Cedardale) which comprise most of the  service area.
233_dallas dallas Each of the  major and secondary pressure zs are supplied by  or more pump stations and have elevated or ground storage facilities that establish the static hydraulic gradient for each z.
234_dallas dallas The remaining  pressure zones are supplied from an adjacent pressure zone via pressure reducing valve, or single, small booster pump station.
235_dallas dallas These pressure zones do not have storage facilities that establish their static hydraulic gradient.
236_dallas dallas has a humid subtropical climate that is local to all of .
237_dallas dallas The average yearly precipitation is .
238_dallas dallas Snow flurries occasionally fall in the  , when there is the presence of a deep trough in the jet stream over the eastern  of the  .
239_dallas dallas Although at times significant amounts of snowfall have been recorded, some  have no measurable snowfall.
240_dallas dallas The Storm of   () in   brought  inches to , with drifts measuring several feet.
241_dallas dallas Drought is frequent in , as well as the rest of the   .
242_dallas dallas The coldest temperature ever recorded in  was F(C) in .
243_dallas dallas The warmest temperature ever recorded was 104F(40C) in  and again in .
244_dallas dallas ""Dallasaurus"" is a basal mosasauroid from the Upper Cretaceous of  .
245_dallas dallas Along with "Russellosaurus", "Dallasaurus" is  of the  oldest mosasauroid taxa  known from  .
246_dallas dallas This small semi-aquatic lizard measured less than a meter in length, compared to such gigantic derived mosasaurs as "Tylosaurus" and "", each exceededing  meters.
247_dallas dallas In appearance, it was similar to its closest living relative, the Komodo Dragon.
248_dallas dallas The genus is based upon  partial skeletons recovered from the    (lower Middle Turonian), approximately  meters above its contact with the older    in   in north-central .
249_dallas dallas The holotype specimen ( ,  Memorial Museum,    at ) consists  an incomplete and disarticulated skull, along with considerable portions  the postcranial skeleton, making up about 80 percent  the animal.
250_dallas dallas The  referred specimen (DMNH , , and ,     ) lacks any skull material and consists entirely  disarticulated postcranial remains.
251_dallas dallas The strata containing these fossils were temporarily exposed during excavations for a housing development, and both sites have  been reburied by construction.
252_dallas dallas The  specimens were discovered about  meters from  another; the  was found by an amateur collector,  , for whom the type species ("Dallasaurus turneri") was named.
253_dallas dallas The genus is named for  , where both specimens were found.
254_dallas dallas and  diagnose "Dallasaurus" as follows: "Small, plesiopedal mosasauroid possessing the following autapomorphies: posterior maxillary teeth strongly recurved posteriorly, slightly inflated at the crown and bearing only posterior carinae that is slightly offset laterally; atlas neural arch mediolaterally compressed but not flattened at its base, condylar surfaces irregularly figure-eight shaped; cervical vertebra synopophyses protrude below the level of the ventral edge of the centrum; short, wide fossa excavated immediately below the ventral rim of the cotyle of at least  middle cervical vertebra; hypapophysis anteroventral edge terminating in short projections of irregular length; postglenoid process capped by bony epiphysis bearing a calcified cartilage apex."
255_dallas dallas and  have conducted a cladistic analysis of "Dallasaurus", concluding that this taxon should be placed within the subfamily Mosasaurinae, "well within [the family] Mosasauridae", and that, despite its small size and the "primitive" condition of its limbs, it should not be placed within the paraphyletic family Aigialosauridae.
256_dallas dallas "Dallasaurus" is the sister group to more derived mosasaurine mosasaurs such as "Clidastes", "Prognathodon", "Mosasaurus", and "Plotosaurus".
257_dallas dallas is located on the northern edge of the &ndash;  metropolitan area at the intersection of Interstate  and  Highways ,  and .
258_dallas dallas According to the    , the city has a total area of , of which  is land and  (1.36%) is water.
259_dallas dallas The city lies in the  edge of the Bend Arch&ndash;  , which is characterized by flat terrain.
260_dallas dallas Elevation ranges from .
261_dallas dallas Interstate  splits into I-E and I-W at the southern end of the city, and the highways continue south towards  and  , respectively.
262_dallas dallas These  cities form the area known as the "Golden Triangle of  ."
263_dallas dallas , a man-made reservoir named the "Urban Bass Fishing Capital of ", is located  south of the city.
264_dallas dallas Part of the city is located atop the  , a geological formation believed to contain large quantities of natural gas.
265_dallas dallas With its hot, humid summers and cool winters, 's climate is characterized as humid subtropical.
266_dallas dallas Dry winds reach the area in the  and can bring temperatures of up to , although the average  temperature is in the 90s.
267_dallas dallas The coolest  is , with temperatures dropping down to an average minimum of .
268_dallas dallas Average snowfall in  is similar to the &ndash;  average of  per .
269_dallas dallas lies on the southern end of what is commonly referred to as "Tornado Alley".
270_dallas dallas Although tornadoes rarely form, tornado watches are issued by the   .
271_dallas dallas Flash floods and severe thunderstorms are frequent occurrences during  .
272_dallas dallas The city's all-time high temperature is , recorded in .
273_dallas dallas The all-time recorded low is .
274_dallas dallas receives approximately  of rain per .
275_dallas dallas In  intense drought struck much   and a large portion   Southwest bringing much   region its worst drought seen since       .
276_dallas dallas Most of the drought in  ended or had it impacts ease by  and   as precipitation returned to the region.
277_dallas dallas The  and   drought was also accompanied by a severe heat wave that brought record setting heat to much of , including but not limited to bringing a   stretch of temperatures at or above  to , .
278_dallas dallas Drought of severe magnitude also affected a large portion of the eastern , especially  and  .
279_dallas dallas It is believed that a combination of La  and climate change had contributed to the intense drought.
280_dallas dallas The "Eagle Ford Formation" (also called the "Eagle Ford Shale") is a sedimentary rock formation from the Late Cretaceous age underlying much of  and   in  , consisting of organic matter-rich fossiliferous marine shale.
281_dallas dallas It derives its name from the old community of  ,  a neighborhood in  , where outcrops of the   Shale were  observed.
282_dallas dallas Such outcrops can be seen in the geology of the –  , and are labeled on images with the label "Kef".
283_dallas dallas The    is  of the most actively drilled targets for oil and gas in the   in .
284_dallas dallas Transgression continued to occur after complete deposition of the  around     (mya).
285_dallas dallas Creation of the  , which  created the Eagle Ford Shale, occurred between  and  mya.
286_dallas dallas The Eagle Ford is mostly confined within the subsurface but outcrops on west side of  and continues at a  degree easterly prograding tilt.
287_dallas dallas The Eagle Ford Shale had sea level depths about  meters or  feet, and deposited about  kilometers from the shore.
288_dallas dallas The depositional environment in the lower beds was low energy and slightly anoxic.
289_dallas dallas This anoxic setting of the deeper oceanic waters was a result of increased amounts of CO during deposition in the Cretaceous.
290_dallas dallas The lower section of the   consists of organic-rich, pyritic, and fossiliferous marine shales which mark the maximum flooding surface, or the deepest water during   deposition.
291_dallas dallas The different fauna  in the Eagle Ford suggest the waters were calm and within the photic zone.
292_dallas dallas A small member of the   that consists of a thin limestone unit between shales is known as the Kamp Ranch.
293_dallas dallas A small regressive highstand formed this carbonate layer towards the top of the  , identifiable by high energy features, such as ripple marks from storm generated waves and interbedded carbonaceous siltstones.
294_dallas dallas The overall thickness of the undivided    is – feet thick.
295_dallas dallas The    posted flood watches stretching from , , to , , starting  .
296_dallas dallas strong low-pressure centers developed along a stationary front that stretched along this line.
297_dallas dallas was located in the southern region of , and the other was located near  , .
298_dallas dallas The northern low, combined with strong upper level winds, dragged large amounts moisture north from the   .
299_dallas dallas The southern low produced severe weather and heavy rain on its north side.
300_dallas dallas At  point, the national weather radar composite showed a large shield of heavy rain stretching from  to northern .
301_dallas dallas River flooding continued through  in some areas, causing additional problems where flash flooding from the heavy rains struck.
302_dallas dallas Numerous locations in  reported record rainfall totals from    .
303_dallas dallas The " Colima- earthquake" was a  Mw earthquake which occurred on    at 15:36 UTC off the coast of   with least 4 people dead and  more injured.
304_dallas dallas The earthquake triggered a tsunami, which affected a  km coast.
305_dallas dallas The Cihuatlan-Manzanillo area, , was more severely affected than other areas.
306_dallas dallas The earthquake was felt in   and in high-rise buildings in  and .
307_dallas dallas Most of the islands have dense cover of bramble "Rubus fruticosus" and bracken "Pteridium aquilinum" and grassland along the coastal fringes.
308_dallas dallas Goldenrod ("Solidago virgaurea") is locally abundant amongst the heath communities growing on the podzolic soils on the higher parts of the islands.
309_dallas dallas The heaths are classified as a poor fit somewhere between H10 and H11 and the heather (" vulgaris"), bell heather (" cinerea") and bracken merge into pure bracken on the lower slopes.
310_dallas dallas A feasibility study is needed to decide if the vegetation would benefit from grazing through a Higher Level Stewardship (HLS) agreement.
311_dallas dallas With no resident botanist, together with the difficulty of recording on remote islands, there are not many plant records and the number of species for each of the   was finally published in  from surveys carried out by   , Mr & Mrs  E allas and  E  in  and .
312_dallas dallas listed  species of higher plants in his  "Flora", and by  further surveys recorded a similar number ().
313_dallas dallas Some of the islands have species that are only found on that island and not on the other   such as an oak tree found by Mr and   on  .
314_dallas dallas Possible ancient woodland indicators such as butcher’s-broom ("Ruscus aculeatus"), wood spurge ("Euphorbia amygdaloides") and wood small-reed ("Calamagrostis epigejos") have also been recorded on Great Gannick.
315_dallas dallas The nationally rare orange bird's-foot ("Ornithopus pinnatus") is found on the northern side of Great Ganilly.
316_dallas dallas The islands of   and   (, "place of wild garlic") (), are part of the  and are in an early stage of the linkage of  islands by a tombola.
317_dallas dallas The sand bar is building from Little Ganinick, northwards, towards the larger island although the sand supply does not appear to be sufficient to link the  islands.
318_dallas dallas On the north side of   a "cuspate" shaped beach is forming.
319_dallas dallas has the only known oak tree in the  .
320_dallas dallas Described by Mr and   in  as ″.... about  ft 6in ( m) tall in tangle of bracken, bramble and honeysuckle.
321_dallas dallas It was still there (or possibly  like it) in .
322_dallas dallas Great Gannick is rich in plant species with  species recorded by  including butcher's–broom, wood spurge, wood small–reed and white ramping–fumitory.
323_dallas dallas has grassland with strandline vegetation and seabird colonies.
324_dallas dallas A wind gust of  was reported at , with minimum barometric pressure reaching  mb.
325_dallas dallas It is reported that the worst damage occurred in  and  counties.
326_dallas dallas In the   city of , 100 percent of the city's residents lost electric power for some a period of time during the hurricane.
327_dallas dallas The strongest winds occurred in  , where gusts surpassed , leaving numerous structures damaged or destroyed as  tracked through the western half of the county.
328_dallas dallas man in the county was injured by a fallen tree branch.
329_dallas dallas Also, an unconfirmed tornado tore the roof off a home, forcing emergency workers to evacuate a man inside.
330_dallas dallas In  , local officials reported wind gusts had blown a carport into a wall of a house.
331_dallas dallas received moderate damage, mostly limited to power outages and minor roof and structural damage caused by fallen trees and powerlines.
332_dallas dallas Mny customers were without electric power for    dy, nd numerous county rods were covered with debris.
333_dallas dallas A person was injured in   when a tree landed on their car.
334_dallas dallas homes and  business were damaged due to high winds, and thousands of people county-wide experienced power outages.
335_dallas dallas reported hundreds of downed trees and powerlines causing  Roads  and  and State Highways ,  and  to be temporarily closed.
336_dallas dallas In , a mobile home caught fire when a powerline fell on the home.
337_dallas dallas A motorist ran into a fallen tree in  although did not sustain injuries.
338_dallas dallas In  ,  homes were without electric power for  , and  vehicles and homes were damaged.
339_dallas dallas A structural fire occurred in   and was believed to be ignited by downed powerlines.
340_dallas dallas Wind gusts in   surpassed , causing $180,000 dollars ( USD) in damage.
341_dallas dallas The      had part of its roof torn off in  , while numerous other homes sustained roof damage.
342_dallas dallas person was injured in   when a tree fell on their vehicle.
343_dallas dallas Another person was injured in   when he ran his vehicle into a downed tree.
344_dallas dallas A structural fire occurred in   as a result of fallen powerlines.
345_dallas dallas Rainfall typically ranged from – inches (– mm), although rainfall in localized areas reached .
346_dallas dallas This caused numerous rivers to overflow causing widespread, locally major, flash flooding.
347_dallas dallas The rainfall flooded numerous state and county roads, some with water up to  deep.
348_dallas dallas Parts of Interstate  were overwashed with water, temporarily closing the highway.
349_dallas dallas In  , a mudslide closed a section of State Highway .
350_dallas dallas In  , the minor flooding was reported along the  .
351_dallas dallas Throughout the region, numerous bridges were washed away several homes were flooded, sustaining major damage in some cases.
352_dallas dallas In ,   of  's    in   published evidence from  ice cores that multiple comet impacts caused the haze.
353_dallas dallas The spherules found in the ice may originate from terrestrial debris ejected into the atmosphere by an impact event.
354_dallas dallas The popular scenic destination Clover Point offers views south to    , east to the impressive snow clad  --a dormant volcano—and west to the   of southwestern  .
355_dallas dallas The ocean waters off of the Point and along the   waterfront are very popular with wind surfing and para-sailing enthusiasts thanks to strong on-shore winds.
356_dallas dallas Clover Point is also the site of  of 's  sewage pumping station's and a possible location for a sewage treatment plant mandated for the city by the BC government in  .
357_dallas dallas Storm and Forge meanwhile find themselves in a pristine, natural world all to themselves.
358_dallas dallas In this new , time proceeds t n ccelerted rte, nd while only  few moments pss in the min relity,  yer does for them.
359_dallas dallas Storm, still hating  man she  loved (as Forge invented   gun that removed her mutant powers), spends most of   in solitude until she is finally ready to make her peace with him.
360_dallas dallas Forge meanwhile had been developing technology from the ground up, eventually creating the tools - and with circuitry sourced from dismantling his bionic arm and leg - enabling him to build a device which restores Storm's weather manipulation powers.
361_dallas dallas Storm, after  of being grounded takes to the skies again with joy, and Forge uses his shamanic magic in conjunction with her lightning bolts to open a portal back to .
362_dallas dallas The "Fenambosy Chevron" is  of  chevron-shaped land features on the southwest coast of , near the tip of ,  metres high and  km inland.
363_dallas dallas It is composed mainly of material found on the ocean floor.
364_dallas dallas Chevrons such as Fenambosy have been hypothesized as providing evidence of "megatsunamis" caused by comets or asteroids crashing into .
365_dallas dallas About  miles southeast from the  chevrons, in deep ocean, is  crater, which   discovered in .
366_dallas dallas Although its sediments have not been directly sampled, cores from the area contain high levels of nickel and magnetic components associated with impact ejecta.
367_dallas dallas crater has not been dated, but  estimates that it is     .
368_dallas dallas "Volume VI of the HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS:  B. Photograph Authentication .THE OSWALD BACKYARD PHOTOGRAPHS Paragraph (): A profile photograph taken by the   , shows that the lower half of 's chin had a roughly cylindrical protrusion with a horizontal axis.
369_dallas dallas (See fig.
370_dallas dallas IV-33, JFK exhibit, No.F-194.)
371_dallas dallas When the chin was lighted by direct sunlight coming from nearly overhead, the protrusion cast a shadow over the bottom part of the chin.
372_dallas dallas The upper edge of the shadow was a nearly straight horizontal line.
373_dallas dallas The bottom of his chin, like his eyes and neck, is in such deep shadow that it is not visible.
374_dallas dallas Thus, the shape of 's chin and the type and direction of illumination are responsible for the relatively flat appearance of his chin."
375_dallas dallas A blizzard (see:  Storm of  ) caught much of  Souast off-guard in , dumping  at   airport on  , and much more than that in  suburbs to  north and west, as well as in  mountains.
376_dallas dallas , a suburb about  miles to the west-northwest, received  from the storm.
377_dallas dallas Some people were awakened by thunder and lightning in a very rare thundersnow event.
378_dallas dallas Several areas of northern   recorded over  in snowdrifts.
379_dallas dallas It is widely regarded as  snow event of   for , and is referred to as  "Storm of  ", placing  in  city's snowfall records.
380_dallas dallas The only other recorded  storm of comparable severity was the Great Blizzard of , which struck in .
381_dallas dallas A blizzard hit on  – crippling  city and leaving schools out for   .
382_dallas dallas Ice covered roads and over  inches of snow fell in some places with over a foot in the far northern metropolitan area.
383_dallas dallas is mostly sedimentary rocks, with east  underlain by a  and younger sequence  sediments, the trace  ancient shorelines east and south until the active continental margin  the    is met.
384_dallas dallas This sequence is built atop the subsided crest of the  &ndash; &ndash;Marathon  zone of  continental collision, which collapsed when rifting in Jurassic time opened the Gulf of .
385_dallas dallas West from this orogenic crest, which is buried beneath the &ndash;&ndash;&ndash;  trend, the sediments are  and  in age.
386_dallas dallas Oil is found in the  sediments in the east, the  sediments in the west, and along the Gulf coast and out on the  continental shelf.
387_dallas dallas A few exposures of  igneous and metamorphic rocks are found in the central and western parts of the state, and  volcanic rocks are found in far west , in the Big Bend area.
388_dallas dallas A blanket of  sediments known as the  formation in the western high plains region is an important aquifer.
389_dallas dallas has no active or dormant volcanoes and few earthquakes, being situated far from an active plate tectonic boundary.
390_dallas dallas The Big Bend area is the most seismically active; however, the area is sparsely populated and suffers minimal damages and injuries, and no known fatalities have been attributed to a  earthquake.
391_dallas dallas The    are bounded by the   to the west, the   to the south, and the    to the east.
392_dallas dallas This area includes the    around the cities of  and  , the    to the west of  , the  , and the    to the east of .
393_dallas dallas With about  annual rainfall, gently rolling to hilly forested land is part of a larger pine-hardwood forest of oaks, hickories, elm and gum trees.
394_dallas dallas Soils vary from coarse sands to tight clays or red-bed clays and shales.
395_dallas dallas The last beds of the , which are also deposited directly over the  formation and found east of  are the  beds.
396_dallas dallas beds reflect anoxic waters at the time due to the shale , and are a result of increased volcanic activity in the south-western part of the  .
397_dallas dallas During  end of deposition of   formation,  eustatic regression had brought sea-level down to    shoreline of  Gulf of .
398_dallas dallas This world-wide regression marks the slowing of sea-floor spreading and bounds the   in a sequence boundary.
399_dallas dallas In the western part of the country the Laramide Orogeny that was building the   started to accommodate horizontal shortening by uplift versus the previous folding and thrusting accommodation.
400_dallas dallas Also during this time around  a major extinction including dinosaurs took place, and is believed to have been caused by a meteorite hitting  off the  .
401_dallas dallas All of these occurrences mark the end of an important time for , especially the  , and brought in a new  and Period known respectively as the  and Paleogene.
402_dallas dallas was also affected subtly by much younger geologic formations deposited by an older, more vigorous  .
403_dallas dallas The northern hemisphere Ice age occurred in Pleistocene time, when a continental ice sheet reached as far south as  during the  glaciation.
404_dallas dallas The ice age climate had  effects on the Trinity River: It caused downcutting (few people know that there is a  deep buried canyon beneath the Trinity in ) , and a wetter climate caused much more water to flow in the river.
405_dallas dallas The greater river flow generated great sedimentary river terraces.
406_dallas dallas From time to time these terrace deposits reveal bones of extinct giant mammals, such as Mastodons and Mammoths .
407_dallas dallas The Pleistocene terraces affected  development of , providing a rich alluvial soil and a perched aquifer, very useful indeed during   .
408_dallas dallas Downtown  is built on a series of these terraces, rising subtly eastward from the Trinity river.
409_dallas dallas The   sprawls across a  wide N-S trending belt of outcropping Cretaceous sediments.
410_dallas dallas in the west is neatly built on Early Cretaceous (Comanche ) and  in the east is built on Late Cretaceous ( ) sediments.
411_dallas dallas The  rocks of the   were deposited over a    interval.
412_dallas dallas The sediments deposited during these    are bound within a sequence boundary, and are defined by a major regression at the end.
413_dallas dallas The time frame of the   span between 118-98mya, and are responsible for the deposition of the Trinity, , and  .
414_dallas dallas These  Groups all lie west of the   , and span from slightly west of  to the east side of  .
415_dallas dallas The Trinity Group is best known for the Glen Rose Formation that lies within it.
416_dallas dallas The 40-200ft thick beds of the   formation are composed of a limestone with alternating units consisting of clay, marl, and sand.
417_dallas dallas The depositional environment of the   was a shallow marine to shoreline environment.
418_dallas dallas This shoreline environment would eventually bring notoriety to the   since it would eventually preserve dinosaur tracks.
419_dallas dallas This process would occur when living terrestrial creatures would roam about and look for food near the shoreline.
420_dallas dallas As they would do this, they would leave footprints and trackways that would eventually be preserved by mud depositing in and on top of the footprints.
421_dallas dallas Eventually more formations would be deposited on top of the mud layers, and build essentially a    time capsule of the trace fossil.
422_dallas dallas As time passed, weathering from water and wind caused the overlying sediments to erode and expose the footprints, and hence the reason why dinosaur tracks are  in the      .
423_dallas dallas –  sits above  strata, dates ranging from  Ma (  ).
424_dallas dallas These Cretaceous-aged sediments lie above the eroded   and the   , which was formed by the  Orogeny.
425_dallas dallas Going from west to east in the   and down towards the   , the strata gets progressively younger.
426_dallas dallas The  sediments dip very gently (about °) to the east.
427_dallas dallas Formation located between  and   consists of marine and terrestrial fossils such as concretions and trace fossils, including the last known dinosaurs in this part of .
428_dallas dallas Directly east of the  which is directly west of  is the  , which consists of sharks teeth, Plesiosaurs, crabs, and little marine lizards called Coniasaurus.
429_dallas dallas The North-West qaudrant of the I-20 and  loop is abundant in sharks teeth.
430_dallas dallas Directly east of  on   is a large section of Eagle Ford Shale outcropping beneath the Austin Chalk.
431_dallas dallas This location right before you reach the top of the hill contain good amounts of sharks teeth in the  .
432_dallas dallas Directly beneath  you can find Ammonites, although they are rare.
433_dallas dallas Sharks teeth are  and primarily easy to find in condensed zones, along with clam shells (Inoceramus) which may also be found in the  .
434_dallas dallas Although not viewable with the naked eye,   is derived and consists of millions of coccoliths, which are calcite derived from coccolithophores.
435_dallas dallas The    which lies beneath  sediments west of  formed as a foreland basin during the  orogeny.
436_dallas dallas Horizontal shortening caused flexual isostasy to bend the lithosphere.
437_dallas dallas The bent lithosphere to the west of the  mountains caused a bowl shaped depression to form, known as a foreland basin, preserving the  sediments of the   and other  sediments; these sediments mostly formed before the  collision.
438_dallas dallas Significant deposits of hydrocarbons such as natural gas have economic importance as is seen in formations like the  .
439_dallas dallas Cretaceous formations that lie from eastern   to east of  are part of the  .
440_dallas dallas Easterly progration of the formations go from west to east which also slowly get younger in age, ranging from 97Ma to 65Ma.
441_dallas dallas The   is known for the  transgression which deposited the  formations in the  .
442_dallas dallas The   consists of  groups, from oldest to youngest being the ,  and .
443_dallas dallas of the   is the  formation which lies in the  , and formed in a high energy depositional environment since it is composed mostly of large rounded grain quartz sediments.
444_dallas dallas in the   is marine and terrestrial sediments and fossils, including the last known dinosaurs in this part of , dating back around 96mya.
445_dallas dallas The  ranges in thickness of 175-250ft, and thickens northward.
446_dallas dallas Terrigenous sediments that eroded from  rocks, and weakly metamorphosed sedimentary rocks from the   in  constitute a large part of the .
447_dallas dallas Transgression continued to occur after the deposition of the , and created the   which  created the Eagle Ford Shale which lies directly beneath west .
448_dallas dallas The Eagle Ford Shale had sea level depths of around  or , and occurred around  km from the shore.
449_dallas dallas The depositional environment in the lower beds was low-energy and a slightly anoxic setting.
450_dallas dallas This anoxic setting of the deeper waters in the ocean is a result several factors including increased global CO2 levels, higher sea levels, increased organic productivity and decay, Milankovitch cylicity, and restricted thermohaline currents in the Western Interior Seaway.
451_dallas dallas The lower section of the   consists of organic-rich, pyritic, and fossiliferous marine shale’s which marks the maximum flooding surface, or peak of deepest water in its deposition.
452_dallas dallas The different fauna that was  in the   suggests the waters were calm and within the photic zone.
453_dallas dallas A small member of the   that consists of a thin limestone unit between shale’s is known as the Kamp Ranch.
454_dallas dallas A small regressive highstand occurred to have formed this carbonate layer towards the top of the  , which is known due to the high energy traits it displays such as ripple marks from storm generated waves and interbedded carbonaceous siltstones.
455_dallas dallas The overall thickness of the    undivided is around  feet thick.
456_dallas dallas Sea level rose even higher in this massive transgressive event, which helped form the 300-500ft thick  , around 89-85mya.
457_dallas dallas The Austin formation consists of recrystalized, fossiliferous, interbedded chalks and marls.
458_dallas dallas Exposures of  chalk are mainly seen in quarries, roadcuts, and stream beds where the water eroded the top soil.
459_dallas dallas Austin chalk is the well known white rock that the city of  sits on.
460_dallas dallas Volcanic ashes are  in the  chalk, and were deposited by wind from distant erupting volcanoes and erupting igneous intrusions around  Ma.
461_dallas dallas These eruptions occurred along a  mile long by  mile wide belt of submarine volcanoes, which are located in   south-central .
462_dallas dallas This belt of volcanoes coincides with the trend of the  Fault zone and is known as the  volcanic province.
463_dallas dallas Of what consisted of these ancient volcanoes is only visible in a few places since most were buried by the  and  , and  are in the subsurface.
464_dallas dallas The presence of this volcanism during deposition of the   is correlated with the  orogeny.
465_dallas dallas Sea level rose for conditions to be right for the deposition of the  , which also coincides with the maximum extent of the Cretaceous Interior Seaway.
466_dallas dallas The depths of the deposition of the Austin Chalk occurred in 250m or 820ft of water.
467_dallas dallas The Austin Chalk formation is filled with micro-organisms known as coccoliths, and are a product of the warm waters that were displaced from the increased sea-floor spreading at the time.
468_dallas dallas People enjoy searching for fossils in the rocks around .
469_dallas dallas Remnants of dinosaurs and Late Cretaceous marine reptiles such as Mosasaur are found.
470_dallas dallas species of Mosasaur was named after the city: "Dallasaurus turneri".
471_dallas dallas Following a storm in the southeast   on  –, snow was on the ground simultaneously in all   states, an event believed never to have occurred .
472_dallas dallas Snow was confirmed in  states by  , and small patches of remnant snow on the north face of   in  were confirmed soon after.
473_dallas dallas The snow on  – forced  cancellation of     XIII after  5k portion had been run   .
474_dallas dallas A record depth of  inches of snow fell within   in the &ndash;  urban metro on the .
475_dallas dallas The result of the massive snowstorm led to whole school districts being shut down and over  buildings were left without power, and forced to use fire and candles to light and heat their homes.
476_dallas dallas A  ft tall wind-induced wave swept  people off of various southern Californian beaches on the 4th, slightly injuring .
477_dallas dallas Light snow fell in both parts of  and Fife, and heavily in the mountainous regions of   on the .
478_dallas dallas out of   flights at     were cancelled on  .
479_dallas dallas Numerous minor car accidents happened all around the   area.
480_dallas dallas The fan palms (Arecaceae tribe Corypheae; palms with fan-shaped leaves) include all of the hardiest palms.
481_dallas dallas of the possible reasons that the dwarf palmetto is so hardy is that it forms a subterranean trunk, and in the coldest of climates grows very slowly, rarely producing much of a noticeable trunk (but in warmer climates can attain up to  m of above-ground trunk).
482_dallas dallas The Cabbage Palmetto ("Sabal palmetto"), the state tree of both  and  , is very common on the southeast coast of the  .
483_dallas dallas The species is considered hardy to  Hardiness Zone , and may survive short periods of temperatures as low as .
484_dallas dallas A number of Cabbage Palmettos grow in the   area (formerly zone 7a according to the much outdated  zone map,  zone ), as well as throughout the remainder part of the  metro area successfully unprotected and are  common in  , (Zone ).
485_dallas dallas The  Palmetto ("Sabal mexicana") is a close relative of the Cabbage Palmetto, native to southern  and northern .
486_dallas dallas It looks like a more robust version of the Cabbage Palmetto, with a larger trunk, although they may be difficult to tell apart.
487_dallas dallas Cold hardy to about  and grown throughout  in cities such as  , , and even .
488_dallas dallas Another trunking  to try in Zone 8a and warmer is " uresana", its cold hardiness is similar to " palmetto".
489_dallas dallas Typically "Sabal uresana" has blue fronds although a green leafed form exists and is supposedly even more cold hardy.
490_dallas dallas - An estimated  people perished in the    heat wave and drought, which impacted the central and eastern  .
491_dallas dallas Temperatures were highest in the southern plains.
492_dallas dallas From  through , temperatures remained above  all but   in  , .
493_dallas dallas The Dallas/Fort Worth area experienced  consecutive  with high temperatures above , with temperatures reaching  at  ,  on  .
494_dallas dallas Economic losses were $20 billion ( dollars).
495_dallas dallas vs.   :On   of  annual Thanksgiving   city of  was hit with  [http://www.srh.noaa.gov/fwd/2000yearinreview.html]  coldest  in its history.
496_dallas dallas [http://www.dallascowboys.com/stadium_info.cfm]
497_dallas dallas Before the game, a mini-bulldozer had to scrape ice off the frozen AstroTurf.
498_dallas dallas The temperature with  degrees; the wind chill in single digits, and ice and snow continued to pour into the stadium's roof.
499_dallas dallas After a 77-yard touchdown run,  running back   flopped down in the end zone and celebrated by making snow angels.
500_dallas dallas Not to be outdone,    returned a 64-yard punt and slid on his feet the final  yards into the end zone.
501_dallas dallas Honey Grove is a small    town (population:  as of ),containing a total land area of approximately , and located roughly  east of ,  north of ,  east of , and  northeast of the  Business District of .
502_dallas dallas Honey  was developed on flat to gently rolling terrain with scattered   is located in     is at an elevation ranging from approximate  above sea level.
503_dallas dallas Highway  and  Highway  traverse the City from east to west and   ,  and 4 enter the City in a north/south manner.
504_dallas dallas is the closest major economic center.
505_dallas dallas The Honey Grove area climate produces an annual average daily maximum temperature of  degrees, and an average annual rainfall is .
506_dallas dallas On   81 a rapid accumulation of over a foot of snow caused the roof to collapse requiring it to be re-inflated.
507_dallas dallas It deflated    on    again because of a tear caused by heavy snow.
508_dallas dallas This was   before the  played the   in the last regular-season game of the   season.
509_dallas dallas In the  following that same  on    the Metrodome roof deflated because of a tear caused by a late-season heavy snow and the scheduled ' game with the   was postponed.
510_dallas dallas On    the  roof suffered a slight tear because of high winds causing a  delay in the bottom of the  inning versus the ; however the roof did not deflate.
511_dallas dallas Snowfall varies greatly in this climate zone.
512_dallas dallas In locations at the southern limits of this zone and areas around the  , cities such as , , , and   rarely see snowfall, which occurs, at most, a few times per generation.
513_dallas dallas In  cities farther north or inland, such as , , ,  , , , , , and , snow typically falls  or twice a season and is usually  inches or less.
514_dallas dallas Ice storms are not unusual at these locations.
515_dallas dallas However for the majority of the  here, temperatures remain above or well above freezing, with slight plant growth.
516_dallas dallas In the northern limits of this climate zone, cities such as  and    experience snow every winter, sometimes accumulating heavily although it melts more quickly than in regions to the north.
517_dallas dallas Throughout its life,  moved through the deep tropics on a west-northwesterly course through the tropical  ,  , and Gulf of  before making landfall near the  States/ border.
518_dallas dallas At peak strength, it passed near , causing hundreds of deaths and heavy damage.
519_dallas dallas After crossing the   ,  weakened as it struck the lower  coast, causing high winds, a significant storm surge, and heavy rainfall which caused damage to southern .
520_dallas dallas Overall,  killed  people and left just over $1.5 billion in damage ( USD), mostly within the   and .
521_dallas dallas Due to its impact, the name  was retired from the  revolving list of  tropical cyclone names in  and the name was replaced by "Andrew".
522_dallas dallas The name  was subsequently retired after the  season's Hurricane .
523_dallas dallas The dissipating storm precipitated the end of the Heat Wave of  in places like  , , which had recorded   of  heat.
524_dallas dallas Storm surge was measured at  feet ( m) near the heads of bays, in some places penetrating  miles inland.
525_dallas dallas Because of its large size, the entire  coast was affected, and damage was reported as far inland as .
526_dallas dallas Sustained winds were reported to be  mph in ,  mph in  and  mph in .
527_dallas dallas Wind gusts as high as  mph were recorded at  .
528_dallas dallas Pressure at landfall was measured at  mb (hPa), making it   most intense hurricane to strike    in   .
529_dallas dallas Then little-known newsman   reported live from the   during the storm, an act that would be imitated by later reporters.
530_dallas dallas This marked the  live television broadcast of a hurricane.
531_dallas dallas On  ,  began a slow turn north, then northeast.
532_dallas dallas After losing strength to tropical-storm force winds near ,  around 1 pm, it passed  to the east of  and west of  , .
533_dallas dallas Maintaining tropical storm-force winds as it moved inland, it tracked across  on the night of   and also produced tornadoes across the state.
534_dallas dallas It brought heavy rainfall all along its path, but moved more quickly the farther north it went as it slowly lost tropical characteristics.
535_dallas dallas By   () morning, the contraflow lanes had been ordered opened after officials determined that the state's highway system had become gridlocked.
536_dallas dallas The     was unprepared to execute such a large-scale evacuation.
537_dallas dallas Coordination and implementation of the contraflow plan ok     as inbound traffic was forced  exit.
538_dallas dallas Police were stationed to assist with traffic flow.
539_dallas dallas Evacuees fought traffic  afternoon through mid-day , moving only a fraction of the normal distance expected.
540_dallas dallas Average travel times to  were – , travel times to  were –  and travel times to   were – , depending on the point of departure in .
541_dallas dallas Many motorists ran out of gas or experienced breakdowns in temperatures that neared  F ( C).
542_dallas dallas Traffic volumes did not ease for    as more than   residents evacuated the area in advance of the storm.
543_dallas dallas More recent prehistoric impacts are theorized  by the    , including     's   .
544_dallas dallas This group points to  enormous chevron sediment deposits at the southern end of , containing deep-ocean microfossils fused with metals typically formed by cosmic impacts.
545_dallas dallas All of the chevrons point toward a spot in the middle of the   corresponding with the newly hypothesized  crater proposed to be some  in diameter, or about  times larger than Barringer Crater.
546_dallas dallas This group posits that a large asteroid or comet impact c.   produced a mega-tsunami at least  high, a catastrophic event that would have affected humanity's cradles of civilization.
547_dallas dallas The evidence for the proposed crater has been challenged.
548_dallas dallas Because of the short distances between major cities in the  and the Confederacy, neither nation developed a long-range bomber between the wars.
549_dallas dallas Instead, bomber development focused on increased bomb load and armament.
550_dallas dallas This proved to be a disadvantage in the   and during the    with .
551_dallas dallas and  were raided routinely in both the   and the   , incurring heavy damage.
552_dallas dallas A Confederate air raid in  killed President  ; a retaliatory raid heavily damaged the  , although President  had moved to a heavily fortified underground bunker beneath  .
553_dallas dallas could be reached by bombers with more fuel and less payload, and was less damaged.
554_dallas dallas In the ,  bombers based in ,  , caused significant damage to  and   in  in daylight raids.
555_dallas dallas In  ,   was asked to found the  branch of Ion Storm.
556_dallas dallas By keeping well clear of the troubles at the  office, Ion Storm () was more successful.
557_dallas dallas It developed the highly successful and critically acclaimed Deus Ex.
558_dallas dallas With the demise of   ,   secured the rights to the "Thief" franchise and together with  tried to relocate as many of the   team to  as was possible.
559_dallas dallas The storm affected the ,  area, bringing a coating of ice to the ground after a rapid freeze.
560_dallas dallas This caused some damage ahead of Super Bowl XLV.
561_dallas dallas Snow falling from the roof of Cowboys Stadium caused several injuries.
562_dallas dallas The "  –   011    storm" also called the "011   " was a powerful and historic  storm situated around the  and  holiday  .
563_dallas dallas In the initial stages of the storm, some meteorologists predicted that the system would affect over   people in the  .
564_dallas dallas The storm brought cold air, heavy snowfall, blowing snow, and mixed precipitation on a path from   and northern  to   and  .
565_dallas dallas The  area saw between    feet of snow  blizzard conditions, with winds of over  mph.
566_dallas dallas With such continuous winds, the  kept going north and affected  and  .
567_dallas dallas The most notable area affected in  was  and the   .
568_dallas dallas Blizzard conditions affected many other large cities along the storm's path, including ,  ,  ,  , ,  ,  ,  , , , , , ,  ,  's Capital District, and .
569_dallas dallas Many other areas not normally used to extreme  conditions, including ,  and , experienced significant snowfall or ice accumulation.
570_dallas dallas The    in Central Illinois issued their  "Blizzard Warning" in the entire forecast office's   history.
571_dallas dallas Snowfall amounts of  to  inches were forecast for much of Northern and  .
572_dallas dallas In , the storm caused widespread disruption of road and air traffic, including flights into and out of     and Love Field.
573_dallas dallas Rolling blackouts were instituted across the state as high demand for electricity left the power grid overloaded and unable to handle the demand.
574_dallas dallas Governor   asked for citizens to conserve as much electricity as they can to help ease the overloaded power grids.
575_dallas dallas , the governing body responsible for most of the electricity distribution in , reported that more than 75% of the state was affected by rolling blackouts on  ; at  point demand for energy was so great that utility companies began to purchase electricity off the national grids to meet the demand.
576_dallas dallas Parts of  were expected to experience additional rolling blackouts  and  as workers labor to get the electric systems back up and running.
577_dallas dallas Throughout the   , multiple large school districts were closed for a record-setting   in a row, letting students out a whole  because of road hazards due to ice and snow.
578_dallas dallas An ice storm affected areas as far south as  behind the main storm front, while  men were killed near  in traffic accidents.
579_dallas dallas The storm adversely affected activities in   leading up to   , which was played at   in , .
580_dallas dallas had an extensive family consisting  his wife, Connie  ;  daughters,   and  , both  , and   ;  sons,    ,  , a student    , and    ;  brothers,      and    ; and  grandchildren.
581_dallas dallas He also coached youth baseball and basketball teams for his  children.
582_dallas dallas On   009 the   practice facility collapsed during a wind storm.
583_dallas dallas The collapse left  and  other Cowboys players and coaches injured.
584_dallas dallas and  , the team's  scouting assistant, received the most severe injuries.
585_dallas dallas suffered fractured cervical vertebrae and had surgery to stabilize fractured vertebrae in his neck, and  was permanently paralyzed from the waist down after his spine was severed.
586_dallas dallas received much praise from  media and fans in   following  incident for continuing to coach in his high energy style, wearing a neck brace, only   following  incident.
587_dallas dallas He was finally able to remove the brace on   .
588_dallas dallas was a member of the team who flew a mass spectrometer on the   's Giotto mission to 's Comet in .
589_dallas dallas This instrument was developed by laboratories in  countries,   and at  .
590_dallas dallas It measured both the neutral and ionized constituents of the comet's coma.
591_dallas dallas The coma contains, besides water vapor and H30 ions, an extended source of carbon monoxide.
592_dallas dallas The atmosphere forms around a comet as it comes near the sun and is heated by radiation from the sun.
593_dallas dallas Dr.  is a co-investigator for the  experiment that will fly on the Mars Scout  mission in .
594_dallas dallas The spacecraft will land in the far northern region of Mars, above the   in the area that the Mars Odyssey spacecraft has found evidence for water.
595_dallas dallas An arm on the lander will dig a trench a meter deep in the surface of Mars to look for water ice and other water related substances (minerals).
596_dallas dallas These will be scooped up and analyzed in a series of small furnaces.
597_dallas dallas The effluents from the furnaces will be analyzed by the UT  mass spectrometer to determine the presence of water and the mineralogical composition of soil samples.
598_dallas dallas Isotopic ratios of the principal elements in the samples will be determined and compared to the isotopic ratios of the atmospheric gases that will be measured by the mass spectrometer when it is not analyzing samples from the  furnaces.
