0_miami miami On  , a moderate tropical storm was found due west of , .
1_miami miami It continued northward while continuing to strengthen.
2_miami miami The center of circulation (the center of the storm) just missed  during the afternoon of  .
3_miami miami The storm became extratropical with winds of  mph ( km/h) after slightly weakening.
4_miami miami The storm caused no reports of damages or deaths in .
5_miami miami However, the hurricane weakened to a tropical storm again on   as it moved overland, and began to curve north-northwest, restrengthening to a major hurricane by   while it was west-southwest of .
6_miami miami The hurricane made landfall over  on the evening of  .
7_miami miami The hurricane passed over southern  near Pigeon Key and   on  .
8_miami miami The hurricane continued traveling north-northwest; however, it was forced to re-curve south-southwest, as a result of a high-pressure area.
9_miami miami The hurricane weakened to a tropical storm overland, eventually becoming a tropical depression.
10_miami miami The system meandred into the   , making a final landfall in   on  .
11_miami miami In , over  houses were destroyed, and the  and  churches were completely destroyed.
12_miami miami The jail in  was nearly completely dismantled, and the prisoners were evacuated.
13_miami miami In  , the Peninsula and  railcar sheds collapsed, with the roofs blown away.
14_miami miami A two-story brick saloon was destroyed during the hurricane.
15_miami miami The  telegraph office reported street flooding in the city, and that the telegraph office was flooded.
16_miami miami Damage in  amounted to $160,000.
17_miami miami In Key West, houses and trees were knocked down.
18_miami miami In  , the tide was described as the "highest in  ," where streets were flooded throughout the city.
19_miami miami At least  passengers on the steamers "St.
20_miami miami " and "Peerless" drowned during the storm near Elliott Key.
21_miami miami The steamers "Campbell" and the "Sara" were destroyed near the Isle of , and the "Elmora" sank.
22_miami miami Telegraph lines were also down south of .
23_miami miami sustained major damage from the hurricane, with  houses destroyed, and cable operators in , , and  were unable to reach telegraph services in the city.
24_miami miami The wall of a legation of the   was blown down.
25_miami miami 's sea baths were severely damaged.
26_miami miami 's streetcar service was temporarily disrupted by the storm.
27_miami miami Trees were blown down in the parks of .
28_miami miami people were killed in the city, while in ,  people were killed, with many others missing.
29_miami miami In , the location of the  '  Infantry, tents were destroyed and there was widespread damage.
30_miami miami However, nobody was killed or injured in the city.
31_miami miami In  , tobacco crops were ruined, and  tobacco barns in the Alquízar municipality were destroyed.
32_miami miami The sugar crop in Pinar del Río Province survived well during the hurricane.
33_miami miami In the   section of , the banana crops were completely destroyed.
34_miami miami Rivers topped their banks throughout the country.
35_miami miami The  and only tropical storm of the season originated in a tropical wave, as indicated by weather maps from  .
36_miami miami The  hurricane database initially listed the system as a tropical cyclone by  , although the  reanalysis concluded that a closed low pressure system had not yet developed.
37_miami miami Maps from   display a weak low north of The ; however, other observations place the new cyclone further south.
38_miami miami Decreases in air pressure occurred throughout the islands, providing "strong indications of a disturbance".
39_miami miami The system is officially estimated to have become a tropical depression at  UTC on  , approximately  east of , .
40_miami miami It became a tropical storm     and, that same evening, storm warnings were issued from the east coast of  to as far north as ,  .
41_miami miami Forecasters began to issue advisories to weather stations in the   when the storm was detected on  .
42_miami miami Forecasters then began to issue warnings to  and  on  .
43_miami miami Evacuation reports in both  and , however, are unavailable.
44_miami miami After the storm hit , forecasters predicted the storm might hit southern and western .
45_miami miami Between   and , forecasters began to issue tropical storm warnings to the  Keys and ,  ahead of the storm due to shipping interests.
46_miami miami By  , the hurricane trekked westward as forecast.
47_miami miami At 5 PM (EST), the tropical storm warnings were then changed to hurricane warnings which extended to the  .
48_miami miami On the , however, the hurricane did not recurve north and warnings for  and later the  Keys were dropped, as the storm instead continued west-northwest.
49_miami miami Because the  hurricane was large (exact size unknown), forecasters began to issue tropical storm warnings from coastal  to the  .
50_miami miami In addition, warnings were issued in , .
51_miami miami Since it was clear that the hurricane would make landfall in , the warnings were changed for the entire  coastline.
52_miami miami After the hurricane made landfall, officials continued to issue warnings until the storm dissipated on  .
53_miami miami It crossed  on  , weakened to a tropical storm, and paralleled the north coast of .
54_miami miami This fast moving storm turned northward, passing west of ,  on  .
55_miami miami It dissipated on  .
56_miami miami This large storm spread winds of  across , , , , and , .
57_miami miami A total of  cattle were driven off of   into  .
58_miami miami Heavy rains were common across southern , with numerous locations recording  to  of rainfall within  , which set daily rainfall records.
59_miami miami The death toll in  was officially , but may have been as high as .
60_miami miami The storm surge damaged a fishing pier in   and destroyed a casino in .
61_miami miami In , much of the city was flooded, and  people were killed in drowning incidents and flying debris.
62_miami miami In  , the hurricane destroyed the Mt.
63_miami miami , which was never rebuilt.
64_miami miami In addition, the hurricane virtually destroyed much of Passage Key, part of which was later rebuilt.
65_miami miami In , several buildings of the historic Ballast Point Pavilion were destroyed by the storm.
66_miami miami A steamship capsized between  and  and there were reports of damage to several other small boats offshore.
67_miami miami Agricultural damage from the hurricane was high, with citrus crop losses totaling to $1 million ( USD).
68_miami miami Damage to fertilizer and other materials also totaled to $1 million ( USD).
69_miami miami In all, the hurricane left  people dead ( unaccounted for) and left $ million dollars ( USD, $92.4 million ( USD).
70_miami miami The  tropical cyclone of the season formed  miles ( km) southeast of ,  on  .
71_miami miami It moved northwest and crossed the eastern  as a minimal tropical storm on  .
72_miami miami On  , it passed east of  ,   and re-entered the  .
73_miami miami On  , it quickly strengthened to the equivalent of a Category  hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
74_miami miami The cyclone slowed and turned west on  , and it continued to strengthen east of the northern .
75_miami miami The cyclone strengthened to a peak intensity of  mph ( km/h) north of   on  .
76_miami miami At the time, the storm was nearly stationary.
77_miami miami Several ships reported winds of hurricane force, rough seas, and atmospheric pressure readings to  mbar ( inHg) from   through  .
78_miami miami The cyclone turned sharply north, remaining east of the  .
79_miami miami On  , it quickly weakened, and it passed close to   on  .
80_miami miami It transitioned to an extratropical cyclone, and it passed over   on  .
81_miami miami The approach of the storm led to the issuance of storm warnings from   to ,  on  .
82_miami miami Hurricane warnings extended from ,   to  .
83_miami miami In advance of the storm, radio broadcasts also advised shipping interests to remain cautious north of  .
84_miami miami No damages occurred along the coast because of the recurving storm.
85_miami miami Peak wind gusts reached  mph ( km/h) at ,  , and  people drowned along the coast.
86_miami miami Damage was minimal, though   was flooded during the storm.
87_miami miami The White Star passenger liner  was battered by the storm on   while the ship was off the Nantucket Shoals.
88_miami miami The ship arrived in      with  injured after having what was reported as a "100-foot wave" crash over  liner.
89_miami miami Late on  , a minimal tropical storm formed in the western   east-northeast of northern .
90_miami miami At the time, it was  detected when atmospheric pressures decreased over the   on  .
91_miami miami It moved slowly west-northwest, and it gradually turned north on  .
92_miami miami Late on  , it steadily intensified, and it attained hurricane intensity on  .
93_miami miami On  , it strengthened to the equivalent of a major hurricane, and it struck the Pinar del Río Province of  with sustained winds of at least  mph (5 km/h).
94_miami miami A ship reported a minimum central pressure of  mbar ( inHg) near  , suggesting that the cyclone may have been stronger.
95_miami miami On  , the hurricane turned east-northeast in response to the southward movement of a ridge, and it quickly weakened.
96_miami miami Early on  , it struck   near ,  as a Category  hurricane, and it entered the   north of  with  mph (0 km/h) winds.
97_miami miami The cyclone steadily weakened as it moved across the western  , and it dissipated west-southwest of  on  .
98_miami miami Following reanalysis released in  , the storm was re-classified as a Category  with winds of 16 mph ( km/h) and a minimum pressure of  mbar (hPa).
99_miami miami This makes   the earliest Category  recorded in the   and ties it with   for the  most intense storm ever recorded in the .
100_miami miami prior to striking , the outer circulation began producing rainfall across the state.
101_miami miami Storm warnings were issued along the east and west coastlines northward to Cedar Key and .
102_miami miami Later, hurricane warnings were issued for much of the same area, and schools in the  area were closed as the storm was expected to move ashore.
103_miami miami The hurricane  affected  when it passed west of  , where sustained winds of  mph ( km/h), along with gusts to  mph ( km/h), were reported.
104_miami miami Little damage occurred in the region, limited to downed trees; this was due to advanced warning by the   , which advised ships to remain at port and for residents to secure property.
105_miami miami Later, the hurricane moved ashore in a sparsely populated region of southwestern .
106_miami miami Damage was reported in   and   and communications were temporarily cut, although no deaths were reported.
107_miami miami Heavy rainfall was reported along its path, and  location accumulated  inches ( mm) in a   period; this established a new -day rainfall record in the state.
108_miami miami A station in  recorded  inches ( mm), and wind gusts in the area approached hurricane force.
109_miami miami The combination of winds and rain damaged 5% of the local citrus and avocado crop.
110_miami miami The rainfall flooded streets, homes, and commercial buildings in the  area, and hundreds of people were left without telephone access.
111_miami miami No impact was reported in the .
112_miami miami After exiting  into the   , the hurricane weakened greatly.
113_miami miami On   it passed a short distance west of  , , and very early on   the hurricane moved over   with winds of  mph ( km/h).
114_miami miami The cyclone weakened further as it turned eastward through the state, deteriorating to tropical storm status as it passed near or over .
115_miami miami It accelerated east-northeastward, moving over the   in  .
116_miami miami Gradually weakening, the storm interacted with an approaching cold front; late on   it transitioned into an extratropical cyclone, and shortly thereafter it was absorbed by the front.
117_miami miami During its passage through , the storm produced torrential rain over coastal cities, peaking in  at .
118_miami miami The storm caused significant property and crop damage along the    .
119_miami miami Trees, power lines, and telegraph wires were knocked down by high winds along the  .
120_miami miami Communication throughout southern  was severed as miles of telegraph wires were downed during the evening of  .
121_miami miami Structures  considered safe from storms due to their location over  ft ( m) inland sustained significant damage, probably from storm surge.
122_miami miami Beaches along the  coast also sustained considerable damages from the storm.
123_miami miami people were killed near  in  separate incidents .
124_miami miami The  occurred when a house collapsed on  men, pinning them to the ground.
125_miami miami The  incident occurred after a woman ran outside her home and was struck by a tree limb.
126_miami miami At least  workmen were killed and  others injured after the bunkhouse they were sleeping in collapsed due to high winds.
127_miami miami The facility in which they were working in also sustained $200,000 in damage from a fire ignited by the cyclone.
128_miami miami Throughout , property loses were estimated at $3 million, with $1 million in  alone.
129_miami miami Damages to the citrus industry  were also significant, with total losses exceeding $600,000.
130_miami miami Losses in  amounted to $250,000 as up to  inundated the city for    .
131_miami miami The "  tornado" was a strong tornado that struck    on   .
132_miami miami It remains the deadliest tornado to affect the south  , and it is estimated to have been the most intense tornado to strike the  area.
133_miami miami The tornado caused  deaths and produced damage totals that were estimated near $200– ( USD).
134_miami miami people were also hospitalized because of injuries.
135_miami miami The tornado remains the only tornado to cause multiple fatalities in  .
136_miami miami It is estimated that the tornado may have produced "F3" damage based on photographs taken after the passage of the thunderstorm.
137_miami miami The exact path and strength of the tornado is uncertain, since it occurred prior to modern records which began in .
138_miami miami The  tornadoes to directly receive damage ratings on the  scale occurred in .
139_miami miami The  tornado was  reported in its formative stage over the  near , where several golfers noted a funnel cloud around 1:00 p.m. Hail was reported with the parent thunderstorm prior to the sighting of the funnel cloud.
140_miami miami The slow movement of the storm was accompanied by a large amount of people outside during the  afternoon, which led to a considerable amount of reports; several reports originated from passing motorists.
141_miami miami The vortex touched down around 1:15 p.m., and the tornado was described as a "very slender" funnel that frequently lifted from the ground for brief periods.
142_miami miami The debris swirling around the rotation was compared to smoke from "burning oil."
143_miami miami Later, the slow moving tornado passed over a dairy farm, killing  person and injuring  people.
144_miami miami Losses from the farm reached $100,000.
145_miami miami The tornado eventually intensified and destroyed numerous properties northwest and north of the city of , causing at least  deaths.
146_miami miami Some residents successfully attempted to flee in automobiles, though the cars were wrecked and some were thrown for distances.
147_miami miami The tornado became rain wrapped, weakened, and dissipated over the northern portion of  , though it destroyed some power poles along the eastern half of its damage path.
148_miami miami Hail associated with the storm was measured to  inches ( cm) in diameter, damaging automobiles and residences' roofs.
149_miami miami The damage path was less than  yards ( miles) in width, and the funnel was visible for   .
150_miami miami The thunderstorm also affected the communities of Ojus,  ,  , and  .
151_miami miami In total, the tornado demolished nearly  residences.
152_miami miami In , impacts were apparently minimal.
153_miami miami The cyclone produced sustained winds up to  and pressures as low as  in the .
154_miami miami In  , the cyclone apparently did not produce tropical storm-force winds, although thunderstorms produced  of rainfall at , , on  .
155_miami miami No severe effects occurred and the storm was not mentioned in the monthly notations of the local  Weather Bureau office in .
156_miami miami However, its presence and that of the   hurricane, then of Category  intensity and in the  , caused confusion in the local press.
157_miami miami On the morning   ,   before the  hurricane struck, the " " published a front-page story on the weak tropical storm in the    and included statements by the editors that it was not anticipated to strike ;  news articles on the hurricane, which was expected to deliver “destructive winds” to the area, were not published by other local newspapers until the afternoon, leaving  residents confused as to the extent  the danger.
158_miami miami Early on  , as Hurricanes  and  remained active in the  , a weak tropical depression formed in the western   about  east-southeast of the  , .
159_miami miami Without strengning substantially,  depression moved west-northwest for    and a half, passing north of    based upon wear reports, and n curved northward.
160_miami miami On  , the depression gradually curved to the northeast, and on the afternoon of   its center made landfall southeast of the city of , .
161_miami miami The cyclone then crossed the central region of , entering the  islands in the evening.
162_miami miami Shortly thereafter, by   on   the depression intensified into a weak tropical storm with maximum sustained winds of , the strongest in its entire life span.
163_miami miami The cyclone then turned north, passing about  west of the  capital  in the afternoon.
164_miami miami The weak storm n turned abruptly to  northwest, having been trapped by a building ridge, and    , while centered north of  , it assumed a gradual curve to  southwest.
165_miami miami Late that , it degenerated back into a tropical depression and dissipated over the Straits of  on  , as the   hurricane approached from just  to the east-southeast.
166_miami miami By   on  —just   after the formation of the preceding cyclone—a new tropical storm formed in the  about  east of the island of , though it probably originated earlier and was undetected; operationally, the storm was not tracked until  .
167_miami miami Steadily moving north of due west,  cyclone quickly became a hurricane   , and over    s, while bypassing  Greater Antilles to  north, it continued to intensify to a major hurricane, with maximum sustained winds of at least , yet few ships were near  eye with which to determine its path.
168_miami miami On  afternoon of  ,  cyclone peaked at , near  upper threshold of  modern- classification Category , and shortly reafter passed just  north of  island of  , striking  at peak intensity    .
169_miami miami Continuing over the   and   on  –, the cyclone, with winds of , then struck   near ,  south of  , shortly before   on  , with its large eye passing over the  metropolitan area.
170_miami miami Swiftly crossing southernmost , the potent hurricane weakened slightly before entering the    near   in the afternoon, and its path gradually curved northwest on  .
171_miami miami Late on  , its path slowed drastically and curved west, making landfall near  , , with winds of  and a measured pressure of  in the calm eye.
172_miami miami Quickly weakening thereafter, the cyclone paralleled the coasts of  and , dissipating      over .
173_miami miami Throughout the , reports of damage were relatively scarce despite the intensity with which the storm struck the region.
174_miami miami However, numerous structures were completely destroyed.
175_miami miami Within  of the hurricane striking , newspapers reported death tolls as high as , fearing catastrophic damage in the city.
176_miami miami This number gradually decreased as persons initially feared dead were found alive.
177_miami miami According to estimates in   ,  storm was responsible for  deaths in  Souastern  ,  of which took place in  and at least  at  , where a storm surge estimated as high as  overtopped portions of a levee on  .
178_miami miami Prior to , the  death toll was long listed as .
179_miami miami Many people in , transients who knew little of hurricanes, perished after examining damage during the passage of the eye, unaware that the back end of the storm was approaching.
180_miami miami Flimsy structures built to house workers during   land boom of   were completely leveled.
181_miami miami The hurricane partially contributed to the end of the land boom, which was in decline by  .
182_miami miami In terms of monetary losses, damage from the hurricane was estimated to be as high as $125 million ($  US$).
183_miami miami Up to  structures throughout southern  were destroyed and  damaged, leaving at least  people homeless.
184_miami miami A storm surge of  occurred south of  and winds on   were recorded at  before the anemometer blew away.
185_miami miami The lowest pressure was estimated at , the  most intense in a storm to strike the  .
186_miami miami The storm also produced significant damage, rainfall up to , and a storm surge up to  in the  .
187_miami miami The entire state of  lost 35% of its grapefruit and orange crops combined, including nearly 100% losses in the  area.
188_miami miami In a study of hurricane damage statistics conducted in , it was estimated that if a storm similar to that of the  hurricane were to occur in  it would result in over $140–  in damage.
189_miami miami In all, the storm caused at least  deaths along its path accounting for the revised toll in the  since .
190_miami miami after the   hurricane struck , the  tropical storm of the season formed in the east-central  about  southwest of  in the  on  .
191_miami miami Over    , it moved north of due east and rapidly strengned, becoming a minimal hurricane by   on   and later peaking at —equivalent to a moderately strong Category  hurricane on  Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale—on  morning of  4.
192_miami miami For    thereafter, the cyclone briefly curved to the northeast before turning sharply to the east early on  .
193_miami miami Late that , the cyclone swerved precipitously to the north, making landfall on the island of   near   at peak intensity, becoming only the  of  confirmed hurricanes to strike the  since records began in , the other being Hurricane Hannah in , another landfalling Category  hurricane that struck the same island.
194_miami miami Curving northwest and then south of due west, the cyclone weakened after striking   and reverted to a minimal hurricane late on  .
195_miami miami It gradually completed a counter-clockwise loop through the western , curving due south as a tropical storm, though its cool surface temperatures and enlarged size suggest it might have been a subtropical cyclone then.
196_miami miami Just afterward, late on  , it hit   near  with sustained winds near .
197_miami miami Over    , it moved generally south-souast and slowly weakened, curving suddenly east-souast beginning on  .
198_miami miami Turning south of due east, it dissipated by   on  .
199_miami miami The   hurricane formed on  .
200_miami miami Moving west-northwest while traversing the tropical , the storm later passed near   on  .
201_miami miami By   it was battering the , impacting the  and   with winds estimated at .
202_miami miami Then, in       , it made landfall just south   between   and   as a devastating Category  hurricane on  Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
203_miami miami The storm crossed the peninsula south   , entered the   , and made another landfall near Mobile,  as a Category  hurricane on    hooking westward along coastal  and , eventually dissipating on   after moving inland over .
204_miami miami In , winds on the ground were reported around  and the pressure measured at  — though all such data is suspect.
205_miami miami Most of the costl inhbitnts hd not evcuted, prtly becuse of short wrning ( hurricne wrning ws issued just    before lndfll) nd prtly becuse the "young" city's popultion knew little bout the dnger  mjor hurricne posed.
206_miami miami A  storm surge inundated the area, causing massive property damage and some fatalities.
207_miami miami As the eye of the hurricane crossed over   and downtown , many people believed the storm had passed.
208_miami miami Some tried to leave the barrier islands, only to be swept off the bridges by the rear eyewall.
209_miami miami "The lull lasted  , and during that time the streets of the city became crowded with people," wrote  , the local weather chief.
210_miami miami "As a result, many lives were lost during the  phase of the storm."
211_miami miami Coastal regions between Mobile and ,  also suffered heavy damage from wind, rain, and storm surge, but this paled beside the news of the destruction in .
212_miami miami According to the   there were  fatalities.
213_miami miami Other estimates vary, since there were a large number of people listed as "missing".
214_miami miami Between  and  people were left homeless, mostly in the  area.
215_miami miami The damage from the storm was immense; few buildings in  or   were left intact.
216_miami miami The toll for the storm was $100 million ($  USD).
217_miami miami It is estimated that if an identical storm hit in   , with modern development and prices,  storm would have caused $140–  in damage.
218_miami miami After the hurricane, the Great Depression started in  , slowing recovery.
219_miami miami The University of , located in  , had been founded in  and opened its doors for the  time just  after the hurricane passed.
220_miami miami The University's athletic teams were nicknamed the Hurricanes in memory of this catastrophe.
221_miami miami The school's mascot is , an ibis.
222_miami miami The ibis is a small white bird that can be seen around south  and especially on the UM campus.
223_miami miami An ibis was selected to represent the Hurricanes because of folklore in which it is typically the last bird to leave before a hurricane strikes and the  to return  it's gone.
224_miami miami The "  hurricane" (or "Great  Hurricane") was a Category  hurricane that devastated  in  .
225_miami miami The storm also caused significant damage in the  , the  state of , and the .
226_miami miami The storm's enormous regional economic impact helped end   land boom of   and pushed  region on an early start into  Great Depression.
227_miami miami Points further south along the  coast, such as , received only a brush from the storm, resulting in rains and some light wind damage.
228_miami miami Flooding was also experienced at points such as  .
229_miami miami Damage estimates in  exceeded $2.5 million.
230_miami miami In the aftermath of the hurricane in coastal , it became apparent that well-constructed buildings with shutters had suffered practically no damage from winds that caused serious structural problems to lesser buildings.
231_miami miami Buildings with well-constructed frames, and those made of steel, concrete, brick, or stone were largely immune to winds, and the use of shutters prevented damage to windows and the interior of the buildings.
232_miami miami Coming on the heels of the   hurricane where a similar pattern had been noticed,  lasting result of the  storm was improved building codes.
233_miami miami Thousands of people were left homeless in ; property damage was estimated at $25 million ($).
234_miami miami It is estimated if a similar storm were to strike as of   , it would cause $18.7 billion in damages.
235_miami miami The cycl remains  of   hurricanes to strike the southern mainland of  with a central pressure below  mbar ( inHg), the others being the   hurricane and   of .
236_miami miami Coastal damage in  near the point of landfall was catastrophic.
237_miami miami , well south of the point of landfall, escaped with very little damage;  and   suffered only slight damages.
238_miami miami In  , numerous power lines and telephone wires were downed.
239_miami miami Northward, from   to , buildings suffered serious damage from the heavy winds and  ft ( m) storm surge, which was heaviest in the vicinity of  ; total coastal damages were estimated as "several " dollars.
240_miami miami In   , more than  homes were destroyed, while the   's mortar was reportedly "squeezed ...like toothpaste" between the bricks during the storm, swaying the tower  off the base.
241_miami miami Because of well-issued hurricane warnings, residents were prepared for the storm, and the number of lives lost in the coastal   area was only .
242_miami miami Inland, the hurricane wreaked much more widespread destruction along the more heavily populated coast of  .
243_miami miami Residents had been warned to evacuate  low ground earlier in  , but after  hurricane did not arrive on schedule, many thought it had missed and returned to ir homes.
244_miami miami When the worst of the storm crossed the lake—with winds measured on the ground at around  mph ( km/h)—the south-blowing wind caused a storm surge to overflow the small dike that had been built at the south end of the lake.
245_miami miami The resulting flood covered an area of hundreds of square miles with water that in some places was over  ft ( m) deep.
246_miami miami Houses were floated off of their foundations and dashed to pieces against any obstacle they encountered.
247_miami miami Most survivors and bodies were washed out into the  where many of the bodies were never found.
248_miami miami As the rear eyewall passed over the area, the flood reversed itself, breaking the dikes along the northern coast of the lake and causing a similar but smaller flood.
249_miami miami Floodwaters persisted for  , greatly impeding attempts to clean up the devastation.
250_miami miami Burial services were quickly overwhelmed, and many of the bodies were placed into mass graves.
251_miami miami Around 75% of the fatalities were migrant farm workers, making identification of both dead and missing bodies very difficult; as a result of this, the count of the dead is not very accurate.
252_miami miami The   estimated the number of fatalities as , which was taken as the official count by the    for many  (and exactly equal to the official count for Hurricane Katrina).
253_miami miami Older sources usually list  as the hurricane's total count of fatalities, including the .
254_miami miami However, in  the  death count was revised as "at least" , making the  hurricane the second-deadliest natural disaster in   history behind the  Hurricane of .
255_miami miami A mass grave at the    east of   contains the bodies of  victims of the hurricane.
256_miami miami In , a reading of  mbar ( inHg) reading was recorded as the hurricane made lfall,  wind speeds between    mph ( to  km/h) were recorded in  .
257_miami miami The hurricane spawned  tornadoes that touched down in  , , and  other towns, with the   tornado being most destructive.
258_miami miami The tornado damaged a  story hotel, a railway office building and several cottages before dissipating   after its formation.
259_miami miami In southwestern , there was damage to orange and grapefruit crops.
260_miami miami people were killed after ignoring warnings and trying to ride out the storm.
261_miami miami While moving over Saint , the storm killed  people.
262_miami miami Heavy rain was reported throughout the  .
263_miami miami The hurricane caused the drowning of  person in the , and moderate winds produced severe structural damage to the buildings in the archipelago.
264_miami miami In , the    issued storm warnings between  to , while Governor   issued a mandatory evacuation for  residents in vulnerable areas around  .
265_miami miami Damage in  was minimal, limited to minor crops, roofs, and signs.
266_miami miami In southern , the hurricane produced moderate damage of $500,000 ( USD, $  USD), including disrupted telephone and telegraph lines.
267_miami miami The hurricane produced high tides along the coast of , covering parts of   , and heavy rains in northern  caused heavy damage.
268_miami miami In , people boarded up numerous buildings, and emergency workers assisted authorities in spreading the word about the impending storm; residents in vulnerable areas evacuated to shelters on higher ground.
269_miami miami The hurricane's powerful winds destroyed several houses in , and heavy rainfall overflowed numerous rivers in low-lying districts.
270_miami miami The winds damaged and disrupted telephone and telegraph lines and injured a few people in .
271_miami miami Despite government orders for police to kill any looters, large-scale looting occurred in  after the storm.
272_miami miami looters were shot to death, and a  was injured.
273_miami miami civilians were also wounded by snipers who fired to disperse thieves.
274_miami miami Residents in southeast  boarded up for the storm while the    issued storm warnings for portions of the coastline.
275_miami miami The hurricane produced strong winds and rain in the   and extreme southern , but damage was minimal.
276_miami miami In northwest , the hurricane spawned a tornado that damaged  houses and injured .
277_miami miami Damage in the  is unknown.
278_miami miami On  , a tropical storm developed off the northeast coast of .
279_miami miami It moved slowly northward and steadily intensified, becoming a hurricane on   just west of .
280_miami miami The hurricane turned to the north-northwest and hit the  province of La Habana with winds of  mph ( km/h) on  .The hurricane passed over  and turned to the northeast and strengthened, becoming a major hurricane as it moved south of , .
281_miami miami The hurricane reached a peak intensity of  mph ( km/h) while passing through the  on  .
282_miami miami The hurricane weakened as it accelerated to the northeast, and it became extratropical on   to the south of  .
283_miami miami It paralleled the   coast, turned to the east-southeast, and lost its tropical characteristics on   over the open north  .
284_miami miami On  , the  tropical cyclone watches and warnings for  were released around 4 p.m. ( UTC); storm warnings were issued in , while hurricane warnings encompassed the coast from north of  to .
285_miami miami Additionally, storm warnings extended from north of  to .
286_miami miami Storm warnings, which were issued around 10 p.m. ( UTC), were also disseminated from Key West to Cedar Key.
287_miami miami The threat of the storm prompted the     to issue southeast storm warnings for Key West, .
288_miami miami Light rainfall from the storm was reported in .
289_miami miami Before the storm made its final landfall, the   issued northeast storm warnings from  to  ,  on  .
290_miami miami That same , a hurricane warning was also issued for .
291_miami miami The hurricane ultimately struck a sparsely-populated area of northeastern , causing several deaths and heavy damage in the country.
292_miami miami High winds downed trees and power lines, and damaged the roofs of several houses.
293_miami miami Along the beach, high tides damaged coastal structures and flooded some cars.
294_miami miami The effects extended into , and  ,  , and   were flooded due to the storm surge.
295_miami miami High tides damaged  piers in  , and there was damage to buildings along the coast.
296_miami miami The storm damaged the cotton and fruit crops in south  from high winds and rainfall.
297_miami miami Rains from the storm ended an extended drought in the  area.
298_miami miami A rare   hurricane strike in the  area, this storm began as a tropical storm near  on  .
299_miami miami Moving westward, the storm strengthened to a  Category  hurricane on   while initially threatening the   coastline.
300_miami miami The system began to turn southwest on  , however, while continuing to strengthen to its peak of , while a ship recorded a minimal pressure of  mbar.
301_miami miami The hurricane continued moving slowly south-southwest while weakening slightly, eventually making landfall near  , , as a  minimal hurricane on   with a measured pressure of  mbar at landfall.
302_miami miami The system crossed the southern end  the  peninsula shortly thereafter, eventually entering the     as a minimal hurricane near the Dry Tortugas on  .
303_miami miami The hurricane then weakened into a tropical storm while beginning a slow clockwise loop in the eastern Gulf, eventually curving back east while weakening to a depression just west of   late on  .The system dissipated just offshore on  .
304_miami miami It had killed  people and caused upwards of $5.5 million in uninflated damage.
305_miami miami The hurricane's unusual approach toward  and late arrival earned it the nickname of the Yankee Hurricane.
306_miami miami The "  hurricane season" ran from      .
307_miami miami The  season featured below average activity, but it was eventful.
308_miami miami A Category  hurricane in the  killed an estimated 2,50 people in the Greater Antilles and  .
309_miami miami A Category  storm hit central  and grazed .
310_miami miami An extratropical hurricane hit .
311_miami miami The  tropical cyclone of the season struck the   in southern  as a Category  hurricane; it remains the strongest landfalling hurricane in the   (and anywhere in the  basin).
312_miami miami A rare  hurricane also affected the —  area.
313_miami miami The "   Hurricane" was the strongest tropical cycl of the   hurricane season, and  of the most intense hurricanes to make landfall in the   in recorded history.
314_miami miami The  tropical cyclone,  hurricane, and  major hurricane of  season,    Hurricane was   of  Category  hurricanes at landfall that    endured during    ( or  being 's Hurricane Camille and 's Hurricane Andrew).
315_miami miami After forming as a weak tropical storm east of the  on  , it slowly proceeded westward and became a hurricane on  .
316_miami miami approached, hurricane warnings went up over the Keys.
317_miami miami A train was dispatched from  to evacuate the    (WPA) construction workers, consisting almost entirely of Bonus Army veterans and their families, from the ramshackle camps they were living in Windley Key and Lower Matecumbe Key.
318_miami miami The train was almost entirely swept away before reaching the camps late on  .When it finally arrived in Upper Metecumbe Key only the engine survived the winds and wall of water that swept through the area.
319_miami miami The hurricane struck the      Mday  .The storm continued north along the   , weakening before its  landfall near  ,  on  .(If information is found on diameter please write.)
320_miami miami The     and other state and federal agencies organized evacuation and relief efforts.
321_miami miami Boats and airplanes carried injured survivors to .
322_miami miami The railroad was never rebuilt, but temporary bridges and ferry landings were under construction as soon as materials arrived.
323_miami miami Within   yers  rodwy (Overses Highwy) linked the Keys to the minlnd.
324_miami miami The storm caused wind and flood damage along the  panhandle and into .
325_miami miami The main transportation route linking the Keys to mainland  was  railroad line, the  Overseas Railroad portion of the    .
326_miami miami A 10-car evacuation train, sent from Homestead, was washed off the track by the storm surge and high winds on Upper Matecumbe Key.
327_miami miami Only the locomotive remained on the rails, and was barged back to    .
328_miami miami The    estimated  deaths from the hurricane.
329_miami miami Bodies were recovered as far away as  and   on the southwest tip of the  mainland.
330_miami miami The "Yankee Hurricane of " was a rare Category  hurricane that affected the  and   in .
331_miami miami It remains the only tropical cyclone to affect  from the northeast in .
332_miami miami The  tropical cyclone and  hurricane of the   hurricane season, it developed  miles ( km) east of .
333_miami miami It strengthened to a hurricane on  , initially posing a threat to the .
334_miami miami Subsequently, the cyclone turned southwest.
335_miami miami It attained its peak intensity on  , and it made landfall near   on  .The hurricane's unusual approach toward  and late arrival earned it the nickname of the Yankee Hurricane.
336_miami miami The cyclone produced winds of  mph ( km/h) on  .
337_miami miami The duration of hurricane force winds ranged from –  in the  , and  sponge fishing vessels were lost due to the hurricane.
338_miami miami The cyclone caused  deaths in the islands.
339_miami miami In  , winds unroofed several homes, and canals overflowed.
340_miami miami In  , the hurricane dismantled communication lines, and "telegraph companies relayed" messages via  and .
341_miami miami High waves flooded  .
342_miami miami feet ( m) of the   causeway was eroded, and police halted traffic between   and the mainland.
343_miami miami The death toll in  was low because of well executed warnings and advisories.
344_miami miami Winds shattered numerous plate glass windows in 's business district, while signs, roofing materials, and vegetation littered streets.
345_miami miami homes lost their roofs in  and , and the oceanfront boardwalk was destroyed.
346_miami miami Precipitation damaged equipment at the   , where many windows were broken.
347_miami miami Construction standards were improved in the aftermath of the  Okeechobee Hurricane, reducing damages in subsequent storms.
348_miami miami people were treated for injuries at local hospitals.
349_miami miami was flooded by  feet ( mm) of water.
350_miami miami The hurricane produced light rainfall in  that peaked at  inches ( mm).
351_miami miami deaths were reported in .
352_miami miami Total damages in  reached $5,500,000 in the –  area.
353_miami miami Initially, the cyclone moved westward.
354_miami miami On  , the storm strengthened to a Category  hurricane, and it attained peak winds of  mph (30 km/h).
355_miami miami The tropical cyclone temporarily threatened the .
356_miami miami On  , the hurricane reached its closest approach to  ; the center was located less than  miles (30 km/h) off the coast.
357_miami miami The cyclone's wind field remained narrow, and  recorded peak gusts of  mph ( km/h).
358_miami miami The cyclone turned south, under the influence of northerly winds from a high pressure system.
359_miami miami On  , a ship reported a minimum pressure of  mbar ( inHg) north of the  .
360_miami miami However, this value remains unofficial, pending reanalysis.
361_miami miami On  , the hurricane, with maximum sustained winds of  mph ( km/h), made landfall north of   near the  location of  , .
362_miami miami The hurricane's lowest central pressure in  was recorded at  mbar ( inHg) in , .
363_miami miami Shops and residences were "boarded up" in .
364_miami miami Precautionary hurricane signals were hoisted along the  east coast from  to , and the center was expected to make landfall between  and   .
365_miami miami Later, hurricane warnings were issued from   to .
366_miami miami men were evacuated from the   area in the upper  .
367_miami miami Workers in the   were transported to concentration points in  and Homestead.
368_miami miami Maritime interests in the    were also warned, though the cyclone's remnants remained f the west coast  .
369_miami miami On  , a tropical storm made landfall on the  coast of .
370_miami miami It moved northeastward across  , and entered the western   on  .
371_miami miami The storm quickly re-organized, and again developed into a tropical storm on  .
372_miami miami It moved north-northeastward, resulting in light winds as it paralleled the eastern coasts of  and the  .
373_miami miami After reaching the    with peak winds  , the storm turned to the northeast, then to the east.
374_miami miami On  , the tropical storm made landfall about  to the south of  , , and after crossing the state it passed over  before entering the  .
375_miami miami It weakened as it accelerated northeastward through the , and on   the system dissipated to the north of .
376_miami miami While crossing  , the storm produced heavy rainfall.
377_miami miami In southern , winds from the storm ranged from  to a peak of  in .
378_miami miami The srm produced heavy rainfall in southern , ranging from    inches (  30 mm).
379_miami miami The rainfall caused flooding of highways and lowlands, drowned several livestock, and some damage.
380_miami miami The storm caused  indirect deaths when a   airplane crashed in   while in search of small boats.
381_miami miami No deaths were reported in the region, although minor damage was inflicted on communication lines and homes and several injuries were reported.
382_miami miami Several communities lost electricity.
383_miami miami Some hospitals were left without power, forcing the delivery of  babies by candlelight.
384_miami miami The storm injured  people in the  area, including  firefighters who were injured "as they fought a blaze fanned by the high winds" of the hurricane.
385_miami miami As the hurricane tracked inland, it passed over the , producing winds of .
386_miami miami Storm surge in the region triggered foot-deep flooding of some streets in local towns.
387_miami miami Docks and fishing equipment suffered extensive damage in the region.
388_miami miami As the hurricane passed offshore, winds reached  near  .
389_miami miami The storm also grounded a fishing schooner from  off the coast of  , .
390_miami miami Although no  was injured, members of the schor crew were detained by immigration authorities.
391_miami miami On making landfall, the storm generated high winds at the Fowey Rocks Light, although they were below hurricane force.
392_miami miami A peak wind gust of  was reported at Dinner Key with sustained winds up to .
393_miami miami Unusually little rain fell in association with the storm;  of precipitation was reported in , while locations closer to the center of the cyclone received less than .
394_miami miami The light rainfall was evident throughout southeastern , except for the  , where thunderstorms enhanced the precipitation.
395_miami miami This aspect of the storm was considered highly unusual, as most tropical cyclones are characterized by heavy rainfall.
396_miami miami According to  study, the unusual precipitation patterns can be attributed to  of  possible conditions: "the air might have been too dry", or "the horizontal convergence of air might have been insufficient to produce a large enough transport of moisture upwards".
397_miami miami The intense winds blew salt water several miles inland; due to the lack of rainfall, the salt burned vegetation throughout the region.
398_miami miami The high winds brought down trees and utility poles and shattered some windows in  .
399_miami miami Local chapters of the    organized first-aid stations and shelters; transportation was provided to those who were unable to reach the shelters.
400_miami miami In advance of the storm,     suspended flights departing from and arriving at  and redirected them to , .
401_miami miami The    also prepared its bases in the   for the arrival of the storm by securing boats to piers and canceling all shore leaves, while the      moved its planes from   to a safer location inland.
402_miami miami The state of  stockpiled food for those affected by the storm, establishing depots in   , , and  , and the Governor of ,  , ordered state agencies to prepare for relief work.
403_miami miami A detachment of officers from the    was sent to  and patrolled along highways to provide gasoline to motorists evacuating the storm.
404_miami miami The state also opened all of the school buildings in   as emergency shelters.
405_miami miami During   before  storm's arrival in ,  Wear  issued  tropical cyclone-related advisories.
406_miami miami Extensive preparations that resulted in a low loss of life and property were attributed to the warnings.
407_miami miami In southern , residents boarded up homes and businesses, and sought shelter in large structures.
408_miami miami Hurricane parties took place in bars and hotel rooms, while some residents sat in hotel lobbies, listening to radio broadcasts.
409_miami miami In , stores sold out of various essentials—including bread and butter—as people prepared for the storm.
410_miami miami Evacuations were recommended from Homestead to  , and    planes dropped warnings to boats near the  coast.
411_miami miami The    also evacuated  of its workers from West Summerland Key to Key West.
412_miami miami On  , the  indications of a tropical system were observed  to the north of the  .
413_miami miami observations confirmed the presence of a circulation center and on   the storm tracked through the  and passed near .
414_miami miami At the time, the storm was found to be a compact, well-developed hurricane.
415_miami miami The hurricane's lowest recorded barometric pressure of  mb was reported on Cat Island.
416_miami miami The storm moved west-northwestward and attained peak winds of  on  ; that same , it made landfall  south of , .
417_miami miami Maintaining a small size, the hurricane moved through the , passing between   and  .
418_miami miami Along the southern shore of  , winds gusted to ; barometric pressure there fell to  mb.
419_miami miami warnings and advisories were issued by     during    period when  storm impacted  western  islands and  .
420_miami miami In , watches and warnings were broadcast via microphones at  to  intervals when the hurricane threatened the state.
421_miami miami The   reported  people were sheltered during the storm, which accounted for a small portion of those whom evacuated.
422_miami miami small vessels were secured in  , while operational  and  planes were transferred from  to safer airfields.
423_miami miami In , communications were severed on the Isles of , though  received ample warnings and was well prepared for the storm.
424_miami miami A hurricane was  detected on  , northeast of the Lesser Antilles.
425_miami miami It likely developed from a tropical wave   before.
426_miami miami It moved west-northwestward, and steadily intensified to a  major hurricane on the , northeast of the .
427_miami miami Around this time, the     designated this storm "The Great Atlantic " to emphasize its intensity and size, which appears to be the  time a name was designated by the office which evolved into the National  Center.
428_miami miami The hurricane turned northward and hit the   later that .
429_miami miami Although hurricane warnings were initially issued for the   and  through  , the cyclone passed north of the Lesser Antilles.
430_miami miami In advance of the storm, aircraft were evacuated from the    in , .
431_miami miami In total, hundreds of planes left vulnerable locations.
432_miami miami Residents were advised to heed advisories in , the , and northern .
433_miami miami On  , hurricane force winds were expected to affect areas from  ,  through the  , and hurricane warnings were accordingly released for this region.
434_miami miami Storm warnings also extended north to  and .
435_miami miami Military personnel sought shelter at  Race Track, while residents boarded homes and evacuated from coastal areas to public structures.
436_miami miami Boats were utilized to transport people from barrier islands, and small watercraft were secured along the  .
437_miami miami In south , peak gusts were estimated near  mph ( km/h) at the    in Homestead.
438_miami miami The strong winds destroyed  residences across the state, while  homes received damages.
439_miami miami The hurricane was the strongest tropical cyclone to strike   until Hurricane  in .
440_miami miami In , gusts reached  mph ( km/h), and damages were minimal compared to communities in southern  .
441_miami miami people were injured at the Army Air Base when a fire ignited during the storm, affecting  hangars and destroying  blimps,  planes, and  automobiles.
442_miami miami An additional fire also destroyed a furniture factory and a tile manufacturing plant in the northwestern portion of downtown .
443_miami miami More than    workers were activated in response to the cyclone.
444_miami miami In the  , hundreds of residences were damaged.
445_miami miami people died across the state.
446_miami miami Hurricane warnings were issued for coastal areas of , including the  Keys and Panhandle.
447_miami miami Storm advisories were also posted along the state's  coast, and portions of the  .
448_miami miami They were discontinued on  , although small craft warnings remained in place along the  .
449_miami miami canceled flights between  and , , and also to  and , .
450_miami miami Small navy vessels were secured, while larger ships rode out the storm at sea.
451_miami miami In the Key West neighborhood of  ,  residents evacuated their homes.
452_miami miami Emergency shelters in the area were opened, and local business slowed considerably with the exception of a few grocery stores selling emergency supplies.
453_miami miami Schools closed as windows were boarded up on houses and businesses.
454_miami miami Throughout its course, the hurricane was heavily observed and investigated, resulting in an abundance of information that provided a more comprehensive understanding of a tropical cyclone's vertical structure.
455_miami miami It was profiled in detail in a "Monthly Weather Review" article by   , titled "A Note on the Movement and Structure of the  Hurricane of  ".
456_miami miami This storm was named  by the   office in , which worked in conjunction with the military at that time.
457_miami miami This powerful hurricane hit near  , , on  .
458_miami miami It moved across the    as a weakened hurricane, but restrengthened before striking eastern  on   as a Category  hurricane.
459_miami miami The hurricane caused $110 million in damage ( dollars) and  casualties.
460_miami miami Although it was very powerful at its  landfall, its destruction was less severe than that of previous tropical cyclones in  .
461_miami miami An airport in south  recorded peak winds of  mph ( km/h).
462_miami miami The hurricane dropped  (– cm) inches of rain across central and southern part of the state, including in  where the storm produced  inches ( cm) in a   period and over  inches ( cm) in a   period.
463_miami miami The flooding rains left many neighborhoods in up to  feet of water due to a  wet , and left over    residents homeless.
464_miami miami The flooding also closed   from  to  , as well as a highway to  .
465_miami miami The hurricane spawned a tornado in both Coral Gables and ,  of which destroyed  warehouses.
466_miami miami In all, the hurricane caused $27.5 million dollars ( USD, $260 million 2005 USD) in damage in .
467_miami miami Following the passage of the hurricane,  mayor   declared a state of emergency and restricted access to the city.
468_miami miami In , many residents had to use boats and rafts to survey damage and look for survivors, due to the flooding.
469_miami miami Winds in  peaked at  mph ( km/h) in , where the storm caused $20 million dollars ( USD, $189 million 2005 USD) in damage.
470_miami miami Elsewhere in , the storm caused $500,000 ( USD, $4.7 million 2005 USD) in damage, mainly due to a tornado that touched down near .
471_miami miami Tides  feet above normal were reported from  to  .
472_miami miami In ,  , the high tides caused minor beach erosion and isolated street flooding, and  person was killed there by a falling tree.
473_miami miami In  , the high tides caused minor flooding.
474_miami miami In   , the origins of Hurricane  were detected north of  in the Intertropical Convergence Zone.
475_miami miami On   at  UTC, a minimal tropical storm was estimated to have formed with maximum sustained winds near ; thereafter it moved north by west.
476_miami miami By  , the storm accelerated and began strengthening steadily, reaching a peak intensity of  before striking land just before  UTC on   south of    in    , .
477_miami miami The center of the storm then began turning to the northeast before passing near  , which recorded wind gusts of up to .
478_miami miami after leaving northern , the storm rapidly became a hurricane, equivalent to Category  on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
479_miami miami Just after   on  , the hurricane struck  just north of  , and just before   it left the  metropolitan area near  —the same area that had been hit by the    hurricane   previous—with winds of .
480_miami miami Unusually, the hurricane strengthened over land as it passed over  , a phenomenon also observed in Tropical Storm Fay (), which struck the same region.
481_miami miami By  , the    issued hurricane warnings from the  metropolitan area to  .
482_miami miami Upon striking southernmost , the cyclone produced insignificant wind damage of $75,000 ( USD), largely due to its having struck an area hit by the more powerful    hurricane in .
483_miami miami Peak winds in  were estimated to have reached  around  , the area where the storm made landfall,  though these were not officially accepted as the maximum sustained winds.
484_miami miami At the  , wind instruments reported readings up to  before failing due to “friction from lack of oil”; higher winds were believed to have occurred thereafter.
485_miami miami Elsewhere in  , the      at   port reported sustained winds of ,  while the    in downtown  recorded peak winds of .
486_miami miami Between the  stations, each  apart, the difference in atmospheric pressure was  mb ( inHg), but the lowest pressure was not below 995. mb (29.9 inHg).
487_miami miami As the storm center passed just north of  , the city at   on   reported a pressure of  mb ( inHg) that was “still falling” at the time.
488_miami miami The eye of the storm by   pssed over the   , which reported clm winds for  —the  time in  th   in which the eye of  hurrice pssed over or ner the lighthouse, the other hving occurred on  .
489_miami miami Region-wide, the hurricane produced significant rainfall totals of  to —and, in the interior, locally as high as —causing severe flooding.
490_miami miami The highest measured rainfall total in   in   was  in northeastern  .
491_miami miami At a weather observation site in ,  of rain fell in as little as  .
492_miami miami In all, as much as  fell in just ¼  in the city; due to saturated ground preceding the arrival of the storm, much of the area flooded easily, leaving parts of the city submerged under  of water.
493_miami miami Similarly, “waist deep” depths were reported in nearby  , , rural western sections of  , and many other cities of the  metropolitan area.
494_miami miami In  , homes in the historic   district that housed    soldiers were flooded in up to  of water.
495_miami miami In the wake of the flooding in his city,   Mayor   blocked access from surrounding cities.
496_miami miami In the  area, the   and the   overflowed,  as did the    again in  , which had  done so during the  hurricane.
497_miami miami During the storm, up to  of rain in   were reported to have fallen on the city of  , and sections of   were under  of water.
498_miami miami On the  , floodwaters extended all the way across the state from the  area to as far west as   in  .
499_miami miami Due to the floods, septic tanks overflowed, leaving canal banks and patches of ground isolated by floodwaters; reportedly,  Route , locally called Federal Highway and built largely upon the  coastal ridge—the highest elevation in  —was flooded out between  and  .
500_miami miami Having been isolated by the floods, deer, rattlesnakes, and other wildlife, along with horses and cattle, sought shelter upon the remaining exposed ground, particularly levee banks.
501_miami miami In  , the flooding from the  and  hurricanes led to the creation in  of what is  the     , which under a  plan was entrusted with the task of preventing a recurrence of significant flooding by forming an improved flood-control system to modulate the water table and by providing suitable water levels with which to water crops, prevent saltwater intrusion, and support recreational opportunities as well as the growing   communities.
502_miami miami Large pumping systems were constructed, along with numerous new levees and canals, to mitigate  risk of large-scale flooding, yet population growth since    is believed to have reduced  extent of vacant lands needed for effective drainage, reby increasing  risk of damage during a flood similar to that of .
503_miami miami In his  book "Beyond the  Generation," former EDD Chief Engineer   voiced his concerns about large-scale development near the levees, which separate the  water conservation areas from the  metropolitan area.
504_miami miami wrote, “It is my opinion...that anytime that area gets a foot or more of rainfall overnight, the shades of ’s flood will be with them again.”
505_miami miami Following the phonetic alphabet from   , the    office in , , which then worked in conjunction with the military, named the storm "King," though such names were apparently informal and did not appear in public advisories until , when the   storm to be so designated was Hurricane Fox.
506_miami miami Hurricane  was  monitored as an area of low pressure over    on   .
507_miami miami Steadily tracking westward, the system was quickly classified as a depression before moving into the   near , , on  .Shortly thereafter, weather agencies lost track of the system over water due to a lack of ships in the region.
508_miami miami However, later analysis determined that the cyclone obtained tropical storm status, with maximum sustained winds of  mph ( km/h), during the afternoon of  .The storm quickly intensified as it tracked nearly due west, attaining winds of  mph ( km/h), equivalent to a Category  hurricane on the – Hurricane Scale, roughly 8  after being classified a tropical storm.
509_miami miami The hurricane maintained this intensity for   , taking a southwest turn on          , when  steamship "Arakaka" provided confirmation of its existence.
510_miami miami Beginning then, the cyclone began to intensify more rapidly as its forward speed increased; between   and , reconnaissance missions by the    began monitoring the hurricane.
511_miami miami At  UTC on  , a navy aircraft  penetrated the storm; in    , the storm strengthened, with another mission registering a barometric pressure of  mb ( inHg), a drop of  mb in  .
512_miami miami On  , another airplane at  UTC confirmed that the storm had deepened further to  mb ( inHg) and its eye shrunk to ;  by that time the hurricane had reached Category  intensity.
513_miami miami The same mission reported a double eyewall,  a feature replaced by a large eye by the time the storm hit the  and .
514_miami miami , the storm attained the minimum pressure,  mb ( inHg), recorded by aircraft reconnaissance during its life span, yet continued to intensify thereafter.
515_miami miami Early on  , as its movement slowed greatly and turned westward near the northern , it attained its peak intensity of 0 mph ( km/h).
516_miami miami Following the phonetic alphabet from   ,  the    office in , , which then worked in conjunction with the military, named the storm , though such names were apparently informal and did not appear in public advisories until , when the   storm to be so designated was Hurricane Fox.
517_miami miami While retaining its intensity, the storm, its northwesterly course having been blocked by a ridge of high pressure, crossed the northern portion of the  , where on Elbow Cay the   weather station simultaneously estimated winds of  mph ( km/h) and recorded  mb ( inHg)  as the center passed just to the north.
518_miami miami on  , it made landfall near  , , as a strong Category  hurricane with maximum sustained winds near  mph ( km/h)—only  or hurricanes, all Category  ( 193   hurricane, , and ), are estimated to have had higher maximum sustained winds upon striking   .
519_miami miami To this date, the hurricane remains the only major hurricane to have struck  , , at that strength, and the only  to pass directly over the county seat of  ,  though the   hurricane and Hurricane King caused significant damage in the county.
520_miami miami UTC, the cyclone produced peak gusts of  mph ( km/h) and sustained winds of  mph ( km/h) at    near  , ; the gust was the highest measured wind speed recorded in the state of  until , when   produced a gust of  at .
521_miami miami The station also reported a pressure of  mb ( inHg), the lowest during the passage of the storm over , though its accuracy is uncertain as  , in the eye to the south, reported higher pressures, while winds at the lighthouse remained at hurricane force.
522_miami miami The hurricane moved slowly inland near  mph ( km/h), and it diminished to a Category  hurricane over the .
523_miami miami Early on  , the cyclone entered the    near , producing wind gusts   mph ( km/h) at   Light near  .
524_miami miami On  , concerns about disastrous flooding were heightened by memories of the   hurricane on the south shore and of the   hurricane at  .
525_miami miami During the storm, tides peaked at  on the north shore of the lake  and  on the south shore at  and  , nearly overrunning the    that surrounded the lake.
526_miami miami However, due to revamped improvements in the dike, the storm caused only minor damage, and the dike prevented a repeat of the flooding of  and , in which over  people drowned.
527_miami miami Nevertheless, floodwaters in the  region resulted in significant losses to cattle, and hundreds of small block homes in the agricultural districts were blown off their foundations.
528_miami miami Much of the marshy country was waterlogged during and after the storm.
529_miami miami On the east coast of , many cities experienced significant flooding; tides of up to  affected  and   counties, washing out large portions of State Highway A1A between   and  , as well as between    and .
530_miami miami High tides carved a channel  deep and rendered a nearby road impassable while nearly reopening   , which had silted over and never re-emerged since the   hurricane.
531_miami miami At   many of the  resort hotels as well as homes and apartments were battered by waves.
532_miami miami There, a three-to-four-ft-deep (0.9-to-1-m) layer of sand covered many oceanfront grounds, and nearby neighborhoods on the  , like  , were flooded to a depth of several feet.
533_miami miami As it crossed   at about , the storm dropped a prodigious amount of rain over a broad area, peaking at  at   .
534_miami miami In , the city manager claimed  of city streets were flooded out, while in   half the homes were flooded.
535_miami miami The town of , having lost  "citrus" trees to floodwaters in preceding ,  suffered devastating losses to groves and vegetable beds.
536_miami miami On the evening of  , the    expected the storm to recurve, precipitating a possible landfall between  , , and , .
537_miami miami As a precautionary measure, small watercraft between , , and  ,  , were advised to remain in port.
538_miami miami Early on  , the forecast was revised, and hurricane warnings were issued for the  east coast from  to  , later to be expanded to .
539_miami miami As the hurricane approached Northern commercial flights were grounded, and  National Guard troops were readied for mobilization if “deemed necessary” by  Governor  .
540_miami miami persons in   moved into shelters established by the  , while up to  people evacuated the flood-prone   region.
541_miami miami In all, more than  people statewide moved into shelters established by the  .
542_miami miami Military aircraft were flown to safer locations, in some cases   or more in advance.
543_miami miami Hotels in the threatened area filled quickly due to fears of a disaster similar to the  Okeechobee hurricane; at  and Cocoa no vacant hotels were left for evacuees.
544_miami miami During the storm, the ,   ( ), and Venetian Causeways in  were closed to traffic.
545_miami miami At   alone,  people sheltered in  official shelters during the storm.
546_miami miami , the site of the strongest winds, received significant damage from the cyclone, and  fatalities occurred on the island.
547_miami miami In , the hurricane produced heavy rains and floods in the  region.
548_miami miami tornadoes also occurred in the state; however, no deaths were confirmed.
549_miami miami The impacts of Hurricane , occurring   prior to the storm, reduced the destruction from the  cyclone.
550_miami miami The cyclone also caused extensive destruction on .
551_miami miami A weak tropical storm, with winds of  mph ( km/h), formed  miles ( km) east-northeast of   a Dios, , on  .
552_miami miami The cyclone, moving northwest, strengned to a hurricane on   .
553_miami miami The system was noted as an organized tropical cyclone at 10:45 a.m.
554_miami miami ( UTC) on the same date.
555_miami miami On  , the hurricane intensified and attained winds of at least  mph (19 km/h).
556_miami miami Subsequently, the hurricane, reaching a peak intensity of  mph ( km/h), made landfall east of  in the    , .
557_miami miami The center passed west of , where winds were measured near  mph ( km/h).
558_miami miami Later, the hurricane made landfall near Marathon on the evening of the same date.
559_miami miami Maximum sustained winds were near  mph ( km/h), and Sombrero Key reported a pressure of  mbar ( inHg).
560_miami miami A lull, indicating the passage of the eye, persisted for   at Marathon and the   .
561_miami miami Maximum winds were estimated near  mph ( km/h) in the  .
562_miami miami The hurricane passed over  around 7 p.m. ( UTC); sustained winds of  mph ( km/h) were documented at the   's airport station, and the lowest pressure was  mbar ( inHg).
563_miami miami The duration of the center was   at the station; the lull lasted for a longer period at the   , but the pressure did not drop below  mbar ( inHg).
564_miami miami A total of  bulletins were released by the    office.
565_miami miami In ,  deaths were attributed to the tropical cyclone.
566_miami miami Homes and cattle were swept away by flash flooding.
567_miami miami injuries were reported, and damages reached $6,000,000 ( USD).
568_miami miami The hurricane, reminiscent of Hurricane Floyd in , produced minimal damage in the  .
569_miami miami In southern , the cyclone produced a storm surge of  feet ( m) on  .
570_miami miami Rainfall exceeded  inches (
571_miami miami mm) at the  airport station, and  streets were flooded by deep water.
572_miami miami Water resembled flooding streams in the streets of Homestead,  , , and sections of  .
573_miami miami In , the city mayor reported water depths of  feet ( m) in the streets.
574_miami miami The city had been plagued by floods in  .
575_miami miami A  bridge, located near the  , was damaged by a loose barge during the hurricane.
576_miami miami Planes were overturned and damaged by strong winds at the  .
577_miami miami The hurricane produced  tornadoes prior to landfall.
578_miami miami tornado, touching down around 4 p.m., demolished  homes south of  .
579_miami miami A total of  residences were damaged or destroyed.
580_miami miami tornado struck homes west of  .
581_miami miami building, containing  stories, lost its roof, while  homes incurred damage.
582_miami miami Barns were damaged or destroyed.
583_miami miami Losses reached $15,000 ( USD).
584_miami miami Another tornado destroyed  homes in the city of , where damages reached $100,000 ( USD).
585_miami miami The tornado flipped cars and inflicted extensive damage at the Royal Palm dairy farm.
586_miami miami All of the tornadoes attained the equivalence of F2 intensity on the modern  scale.
587_miami miami The hurricane caused no fatalities across the state, and the recent passage of Hurricane , which had resulted in pre-existing damage, mitigated the destruction from the  hurricane.
588_miami miami Total losses in  reached $5,500,000; more than one-half of the costs were attributed to property damage.
589_miami miami The lack of fatalities was unusual in a densely populated region.
590_miami miami The "  hurricane" was  of the strongest tropical cycls of the   hurricane season.
591_miami miami The hurricane, the  most intense storm of the season, produced winds of  mph ( km/h) in the ,  region.
592_miami miami The  tropical storm,  hurricane, and the  major hurricane of the season, it developed east-northeast of   a Dios, .
593_miami miami Subsequently, it intensified over the western  , attained winds of hurricane strength, and made landfall on western .
594_miami miami The cyclone, which was the equivalence of a Category  hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale, crossed the island and struck the   as a major hurricane.
595_miami miami The center passed over , departed near  , and crossed the   south of .
596_miami miami In , the hurricane produced hurricane force gusts from   to Saint Augustine.
597_miami miami The majority of the state experienced sustained winds of at least  mph ( km/h).
598_miami miami The storm produced the most severe conditions over the   region since , and peak gusts were measured from  ( km/h) to  mph ( km/h) near the lake.
599_miami miami The minimum central pressure near   was  mbar ( inHg) at Canal Point; pressures were below  mbar ( inHg) as far north as  , which is located in the   of the state.
600_miami miami On  , the northern  were advised to initiate hurricane precautions, and a hurricane warning was issued for the islands.
601_miami miami were encouraged to closely monitor the progress of the storm.
602_miami miami On  , hurricane warnings were released from  to  ; officials decided to cancel proposed evacuations of the   region, as the presence of the    was expected to prevent flooding.
603_miami miami On the southeast coast of , unofficial wind gusts reached  mph ( km/h) at   and  mph ( km/h) at , respectively.
604_miami miami reported sustained winds of  mph ( km/h) and peak gusts of  mph ( km/h).
605_miami miami Tides reached  feet ( in) above normal at   and , but the    remained intact, protecting the area from severe flooding.
606_miami miami Minimal erosion occurred in some locales.
607_miami miami , Jupiter, and  experienced the most severe damage from the storm in south ; hundreds of homes, apartment buildings, stores, and warehouse buildings lost roofs and windows.
608_miami miami Interior furnishings were blown through broken glass into the streets.
609_miami miami Severe damage was received by 40 percent of 's residences and commercial structures, and 90 percent required repairs.
610_miami miami A church, baseball park, and ice company was destroyed in the area's black neighborhoods.
611_miami miami Many flimsy buildings were destroyed in the neighborhoods.
612_miami miami In   , cars were overturned in the interior of a dealership as winds shattered windows.
613_miami miami Sand and debris covered the island of  .
614_miami miami Heavy rainfall resulted in flooding, and water entered many homes in   and  counties.
615_miami miami Snakes and mosquitoes infested many residences.
616_miami miami Precipitation totals of , , and  were measured at  , , and   , respectively.
617_miami miami received less damage, although trees and power lines were knocked down.
618_miami miami Winds reached  mph ( km/h) in the city.
619_miami miami Radio towers were toppled in   and  , and  portions of the Jensen causeway near 's Point were ripped away.
620_miami miami A hangar and beacon was destroyed at the local airport in  .
621_miami miami people were homeless in .
622_miami miami A water mark of  feet ( in) was recorded on the    near .
623_miami miami After reaching the southwestern  , King turned northward and later northwestward, striking downtown ,  on   with winds of  mph ( km/h).
624_miami miami It was the most severe hurricane to impact the city since the   hurricane.
625_miami miami Across , damage totaled $27.75 million ( USD, $  USD), of which $15 million ( USD, $  USD) was in the  metropolitan area.
626_miami miami A preliminary survey indicated there were  houses damaged in the region, with an additional  destroyed.
627_miami miami Along its path through the state, strong winds were observed around  , with a  mph ( km/h) gust in .
628_miami miami Overall, there were  deaths in the state.
629_miami miami Early on  , King weakened to tropical storm status over north-central , and later that  it dissipated over western .
630_miami miami There was  additional death in .
631_miami miami The tropical cyclones of the season produced a total of  fatalities and $38.5 million in property damage ( USD, $  USD).
632_miami miami The  officially named  hurricane was Hurricane Able, which formed on  , brushed the   coastline, and later moved across southeastern .
633_miami miami The strongest hurricane of the season, Hurricane Dog reached the equivalent of a Category  hurricane on the  scale, and caused extensive damage to the  .
634_miami miami major hurricanes affected : Easy produced the largest  rainfall total recorded in the  , while King struck downtown  and caused $27.75 million ( USD, $  USD) of damage.
635_miami miami The last storm of  , Hurricane Love, dissipated on   after striking    and causing minimal damage.
636_miami miami On  , a tropical depression formed in the western     after the end of the hurricane season.
637_miami miami It moved quickly north-northwestward and intensified into a tropical storm, followed by a northeast turn after brushing the  .
638_miami miami Early on  , the storm struck  ,  and quickly crossed the state.
639_miami miami The     office recorded a wind gust of  mph ( km/h) during its passage.
640_miami miami The winds damaged windows and power lines, catching residents and tourists off-guard.
641_miami miami The cyclone also dropped – inches (– mm) of precipitation along its path, causing crop damage in  .
642_miami miami Residents and tourists in southern  were unprepared for the unusual off-season storm.
643_miami miami Winds of up to  mph ( km/h) spread across the area, causing damage to windows and power lines.
644_miami miami The storm dropped – inches (– mm) of precipitation along its path; the combination of unseasonable rainfall and winds resulted in crop damage in  .
645_miami miami After the storm moved into the western , the     issued storm warnings for the   coastline from  to  ; the region was warned to prepare for strong winds.
646_miami miami The agency also issued a small craft advisory southward through ,  .
647_miami miami Offshore, the storm produced winds of up to  mph ( km/h), as well as waves up to  feet ( m) in height.
648_miami miami The combination of the winds and rough waves drove a freighter ashore along   in the Outer Banks, after the engine was damaged when water entered the fuel line.
649_miami miami The  person crew initially planned to evacuate, but they later decided to stay on the freighter as the    were deployed to assist.
650_miami miami The seas damaged a portion of the ship, but the entire crew was rescued without any injuries.
651_miami miami The storm later brushed  , bringing rain, fog, warmer temperatures, and gusty winds.
652_miami miami The combination resulted in downed power poles and tree limbs, leaving  houses without electricity.
653_miami miami The storm was described as a "freak", forming    after the end of the hurricane season.
654_miami miami The chief forecaster at    ,  , remarked that he was unsure how the cyclone developed.
655_miami miami It is  only tropical or subtropical storm on record during    , and was  earliest tropical cyclone to strike   .
656_miami miami Its structure initially was uncertain, and the storm was not included in the   hurricane season summary published by the    office.
657_miami miami Ultimately it was included in the tropical cyclone database.
658_miami miami Had it been operationally treated as a tropical cyclone, it would have been named Tropical Storm Able.
659_miami miami On     a disturbance was  observed in the western   declared to have been a tropical cyclone.
660_miami miami Winds were estimated at around  mph ( km/h), and it tracked rapidly northward, initially to the north-northwest.
661_miami miami After passing near  along the  , it turned northeastward and brushed the northwest coast of .
662_miami miami Early on   the storm approached Key West, and shortly thereafter moved ashore near  , .
663_miami miami It quickly crossed the state, passing near  before emerging into the western  .
664_miami miami The     office recorded a wind gust of  mph ( km/h), as well as sustained tropical storm force winds for   ; the station also recorded a barometric pressure of  mbar ( inHg).
665_miami miami The hurricane season officially began on  , when the     in ,  began   operations.
666_miami miami The agency, under the direction of   had access to  other weather stations across the  basin.
667_miami miami died during the season from a stroke while tracking Hurricane Hazel.
668_miami miami Additionally, a group of Hurricane Hunters planes were put on standby for the season, able to be flown out into storms and collect data.
669_miami miami During the season, there were  named storms, as well as an unnamed hurricane and a tropical depression.
670_miami miami The seson officilly ended on  , lthough n unnmed tropicl storm formed  dy lter.
671_miami miami In addition, Tropical Storm Alice developed on  , the latest a tropical cyclone has developed in the calendar .
672_miami miami The storm produced significant rainfall in a  region of .
673_miami miami The highest total in the state was  in .
674_miami miami There, the rains caused flash flooding that entered over  houses.
675_miami miami The flooding flooded  state highways, and also left portions of  inaccessible after reporting the heaviest rainfall in  .
676_miami miami Large tomato fields were inundated, resulting in some crop damage.
677_miami miami In portions of the state, the rains were beneficial due to  dry conditions.
678_miami miami The storm spawned a tornado in   that injured  person.
679_miami miami Damage throughout  was estimated at $3 million, mostly in the  area.
680_miami miami In addition,  surfers drowned during the storm.
681_miami miami Precipitation extended as far north as  , and coastal areas experienced high tides and gusty winds.
682_miami miami A low pressure area formed along a dissipating cold front to the north of  .
683_miami miami The system moved westward, developing some tropical characteristics by  .
684_miami miami , the storm moved over  before turning to the north.
685_miami miami On  , it crossed over southeastern  near .
686_miami miami The storm was never fully tropical, as its winds and precipitation extended far away from the center.
687_miami miami It produced sustained winds of  with gusts to .
688_miami miami After affecting , the storm crossed the western  and moved across the Outer Banks.
689_miami miami The storm became extratropical on   offshore , and    it was absorbed by anor extratropical storm.
690_miami miami The season officially began on  , the date that the Weather Bureau office in , , under the direction of  , began daily monitoring of all tropical disturbances and cyclones across the northern  .
691_miami miami The agency had access to the Hurricane Hunters, a fleet of aircraft that obtain data by flying into storms.
692_miami miami The Weather Bureau, in collaboration with other agencies, began a &ndash; project in  to obtain and analyze data on the structure of hurricanes.
693_miami miami The season officially ended on  .
694_miami miami The hurricane caused  deaths and considerable damage as an extratropical cyclone.
695_miami miami It also caused $1,656,000 ( USD) in damage in , most of which came from a single tornado in .
696_miami miami In its early stages, the storm dropped moderately heavy rainfall in , which caused damage to crops.
697_miami miami A tornado near  and high tides on the west coast of the state also resulted in damage.
698_miami miami Overall, losses in  were slightly more than $1.5 million ( USD).
699_miami miami After becoming extratropical, the storm caused significant effects in  .
700_miami miami Rough seas damaged or destroyed numerous fishing boats and caused  fatalities.
701_miami miami High winds also disrupted communications in some areas.
702_miami miami By  ,  made landfall near   border and dissipated over  on   .
703_miami miami On  ,  of rain fell in only  .
704_miami miami No impact was reported in .
705_miami miami The storm dropped rainfall across , though the heavier amounts were mainly on the  coast.
706_miami miami Precipitation peaked at  near Fellsmere, while rainfall reached  in some areas of the  metropolitan area.
707_miami miami Although  was a depression at landfall, sustained winds between  were recorded in  , while a gust as high as  was reported in  .
708_miami miami In , a pressure gradient combined with  to produce tides of  about normal.
709_miami miami A tropical wave strengthened into a depression on  , and was named Tropical Storm  soon after.
710_miami miami moved quickly to the west and strengthened into a Category  storm by the time it churned through the Lesser Antilles.
711_miami miami The hurricane remained a Category  as it passed into the , and moved just to the south of  on  2, and then veered more to the north which brought a landfall on the tip of .
712_miami miami The storm then turned to the north and weakened to a Category  before it struck , but remained a hurricane the whole time over land.
713_miami miami then brushed against  and the east coast of  as it weakened from a Category  hurricane to a tropical storm.
714_miami miami killed a total of  people and caused serious property damage as it travelled through the   and into , totaling $198 million ( USD, $  USD) in damage.
715_miami miami Alma made landfall near  ,  on   as a tropical depression, and became extratropical    over  .
716_miami miami Although  passed just offshore, impact in  , if any, is unknown.
717_miami miami In the  , winds of  mph ( km/h) was reported.
718_miami miami Impact was severest in , where flash flooding caused  fatalities, destroyed several homes, forced the evacuation of  people in  , and resulted in a shutdown of  sugar mills.
719_miami miami The storm brought light rainfall to , peaking at  near .
720_miami miami Hazardous thunderstorms caused  death in  and damaged some roofs and building in  .
721_miami miami In other states, impact was mostly in the form of rain, though a tornado near ,   destroyed a roof.
722_miami miami In addition to the  named storms of  and  notable tropical depressions, there were several minor systems that were classified as depressions by the National Hurricane Center.
723_miami miami The   systems of   were not classified as fully tropical, rar y were associated with  remnants of decaying cold fronts.
724_miami miami On  , the  of these depressions formed northeast of the  and tracked in a curved motion before dissipating over open water on  .
725_miami miami , on  , another depression formed in the same general region; however, this system was shorter lived and dissipated    without significant movement.
726_miami miami On  , another partially tropical system formed over open waters.
727_miami miami The cyclone tracked northeast and dissipated late on   east-southeast of the Azores.
728_miami miami On  , a brief depression formed near  but dissipated   .
729_miami miami Roughly   into  officil hurricne seson,   depression of  yer formed just offshore soust Florid, ner Mimi.
730_miami miami The system tracked northwest across the peninsula and briefly entered the Gulf of  on    making landfall along the  .
731_miami miami The depression eventually dissipate on   over  .
732_miami miami A broad area of low pressure organized into a tropical depression off the coast of  on  .
733_miami miami After drifting to the southeast, it turned to the north-northwest and organized into a tropical storm on  .
734_miami miami Subsequent to crossing western ,  accelerated to the northeast, and attained hurricane status late on  .
735_miami miami It passed through the  Keys before entraining cooler, drier air from a stationary frontal boundary.
736_miami miami Its convection became very disorganized, and  weakened back to a tropical storm early on   to the southeast of ; the storm crossed the , and becoming an extratropical cyclone before being absorbed by the frontal boundary on  .
737_miami miami In the ,  brought high tides, hurricane force winds, and tornadoes, which caused significant damage in the archipelago, especially on Cat Cays.
738_miami miami At least  houses were destroyed and left damage to the transport, communications, water, sanitation, agriculture, and fishing sectors.
739_miami miami Overall,  caused  fatalities and $250 million ( USD) in damage in the .
740_miami miami Throughout the southern portions of ,  brought very high winds; a wind gust of  mph ( km/h) was reported at a house in , .
741_miami miami High winds caused catastrophic damage in , especially in  , where approximately  houses were either severely damaged or destroyed.
742_miami miami In the ,  acres ( km2) of trees were knocked down and about   fish were killed.
743_miami miami Rainfall in  was moderate, peaking at  in western  .
744_miami miami Significant damage to oil platforms was reported, with  company losing  platforms, had  structures damaged, and  drilling wells blown off course.
745_miami miami In ,  produced hurricane force winds along its path, which left about  without electricity, downed 80% of trees in the   , and caused significant agricultural damage.
746_miami miami An F3 tornado in   the   damaged or destroyed  structures.
747_miami miami fatalities were reported in ,  of which were drowning victims offshore.
748_miami miami Elsewhere, the storm spawned at least  tornadoes, especially in , , and .
749_miami miami Overall,  caused  fatalities and $26 billion ( USD) in damage, making it the  costliest hurricane in  history, behind only Hurricane Katrina in  and Hurricane Ike in .
750_miami miami Following 's closest approach, the    station in  recorded a minimum barometric pressure of, as well as  surface winds as the center of  passed a little to the west.
751_miami miami The     in  reported a minimum central pressure of .
752_miami miami Only  other reports of tropical storm force winds were reported on the  mainland, besides , were reported in associated with .
753_miami miami In , sustained winds of  were observed at  UTC.
754_miami miami Shortly thereafter, near  UTC, sustained winds of  with gusts up to  were reported in the same location.
755_miami miami Several ships reported rough weather during 's existence, with the "Pacific Sandpiper" reporting a maximum wave height of .
756_miami miami In , it is reported that waves in excess of  moved through the city.
757_miami miami In several states, heavy rainfall between  to  inches was recorded.
758_miami miami However, in  , the highest rainfall total was observed, at .
759_miami miami According to "The  " and the "West Hawaii ",  is blamed for the death of  deaths, which includes both direct and indirect.
760_miami miami Most of the fatalities came from heavy rainfall associated with the system.
761_miami miami A state of emergency was declared in at least  states in  following 's passage, and the    said that  people were evacuated in  states.
762_miami miami Additionally, at least  people were left homeless.
763_miami miami Finally, rough seas near   caused all  tons of sulfuric acid to leak aboard the  beached cargo tanker, "Betula".
764_miami miami While hurricanes are often seen as the biggest weather threat to , tornadoes are relatively common in  , although the vast majority of the tornadoes that strike -Dade  are small, relatively weak F0 or F1 tornadoes.
765_miami miami Most of these tornadoes form as either waterspouts off  , as part of the frequent afternoon thunderstorms, or spawned from a tropical storm or hurricane.
766_miami miami Tornadoes can and have occurred in every month of the year in  .
767_miami miami The tornado formed in the afternoon (around 2:00 PM), initially touching down in the Silver Bluff Estates area.
768_miami miami It then swept through , bypassing the city's skyscrapers.
769_miami miami It then crossed the MacArthur  and the  , towards  , sideswiping a cruise ship.
770_miami miami The tornado lifted from the water halfway through   and touched down briefly again in  , flipping over a car and then dissipating.
771_miami miami The Storm Prediction Center in  had predicted tornadoes in the area and warned that there might be more to come.
0_chicago chicago "The great fire" of   occurred on   —the    after the end of the   .
1_chicago chicago before the   Fire, this was the greatest fire yet seen in an  city.
2_chicago chicago It started in a boat house on Commercial Street, likely caused by a firecracker or a cigar ash.
3_chicago chicago The fire spread to a lumber yard and on to a sugar house, then spread across the city, eventually burning out on   in the city's east end.
4_chicago chicago Only  people died in the fire but  were made homeless and  buildings were burned to the ground.
5_chicago chicago This included the federal Exchange Building by which was replaced with the custom house.
6_chicago chicago Soon after the fire, poet    described his old home town: "Desolation!
7_chicago chicago Desolation!
8_chicago chicago Desolation!
9_chicago chicago It reminds me of , the 'sepult city'."
10_chicago chicago closed its  season with a trip to  to face   's  .
11_chicago chicago before kickoff a "driving sleet storm" hit the city, and when the players lined up "the grounds were better fitted for skating rink purposes rather than a gridiron."
12_chicago chicago Despite the inclement weather, a large crowd turned out to watch the game.
13_chicago chicago According to a newspaper account, "the grand stand and outfield were packed with yelling collegians, and the boxes and carriage rooms were well filled with society people."
14_chicago chicago An account published in the "  " described the atmosphere surrounding the game:"Notwithstanding the threatening weather, fully  of 's best and fairest witnessed the hardest fought battle ever seen in . . . .
15_chicago chicago was not entirely over her hard-fought game in    and her men did not play with the snap and dash she displayed against .
16_chicago chicago The east and south sides of the field were lined with tally-hos, landaus, etc.
17_chicago chicago Every wore the colors of  of the colleges.
18_chicago chicago The yellow and blue of  was as prominently displayed as was the maroon of .
19_chicago chicago Everyone was out to yell for his respective team and from the noise it seemed as if pandemonium had been turned loose."
20_chicago chicago There were   of temperatures above  with 90 percent humidity.
21_chicago chicago The temperatures did not drop at night.
22_chicago chicago It caused more deaths than the     draft riots or the  Great  Fire.
23_chicago chicago With  out of action, the  team focused on  .
24_chicago chicago Early in the game,  kept the ball in  territory, and  narrowly missed a field goal from the 45-yard line.
25_chicago chicago Also early in the  half, 's right tackle  shoved  to the ground after he had punted.
26_chicago chicago The blow nearly knocked  out of the game, and the head linesman called a penalty of  yards and ejected  from the game.
27_chicago chicago The "  " wrote tht " slugged , knocking the big cting cptin 'silly' for    nd dzing him for the entire hlf."
28_chicago chicago After the game, 's trainer,   noted that "' face is badly disfigured for the time being."
29_chicago chicago The "Tribune" also reported that 's fullback  had kneed  halfback   in the face.
30_chicago chicago Just before the noon , severe thunderstorms began forming  west of downtown .
31_chicago chicago The  storm started to spawn killer tornadoes in  and then Kane Counties starting at 12:00 pm.
32_chicago chicago Roughly    a violent F4 tornado tore through Will and Cook Counties cutting a path  long in the  and  areas that would kill  people as the storm devastated the community of Melrose Park.
33_chicago chicago of the fatalities occurred when the storm made a direct hit on the     and Convent where people were getting ready for Palm  services.
34_chicago chicago more people would be killed in the community of  before the storm passed into  .
35_chicago chicago Severe thunderstorms began developing in  during the early morning .
36_chicago chicago The storms moved quickly to the northeast towards , .
37_chicago chicago The  tornado injured  people  souast of ,  in    in  .
38_chicago chicago This  twister was a harbinger of things to come as the morning went on and the atmosphere began to destabilize, due to the abundance of sunshine that preceded the cold front in the warm sector, which covered the lower Great Lakes region extending southward well  the   .
39_chicago chicago Weather forecasters and the public alike in the , ,  , , South Bend, and  areas were unaware that the stage was set that  for a tragic tornado outbreak that would follow on a balmy and seemingly tranquil Palm Sun afternoon.
40_chicago chicago The weather maps in use in  showed a rather large and deep cyclone over northern  that was forecast to move across central Lower  by nightfall with a trailing cold front.
41_chicago chicago Meteorologists knew rain showers and perhaps a thundershower was a good possibility, but were unaware that the helicity, lifted index, and upper level winds were being guided by a strong jet stream with a probable negative-tilt that would create favorable conditions for the development of tornadoes.
42_chicago chicago As the Palm  storms swept quickly out of the  area across  , they moved towards 's  .
43_chicago chicago tornadoes (highest number of any state reported) would cause massive destruction across the region from  and   starting at 12:30 pm, moving northeastward to the , ,  and  areas, ending after 8:00 pm.
44_chicago chicago . ,  –   feet,  inches  .,  A&M –  feet, ½ inches  .,   –  feet,  inches  .Schjoll,  –  feet, ½ inches .,  –  feet,  inches
45_chicago chicago Although the official paid attendance was recorded as , newspaper accounts reported that only  actually attended, as the game was played in a heavy rainstorm on a cold afternoon.
46_chicago chicago The rain turned the field into a "sea of mud" with an inch of standing water on top of the mud.
47_chicago chicago In the "  ",   (who also served as the game's referee) compared the field to a "bog" and added:"In my   of football I have never seen worse conditions.
48_chicago chicago Pools of water stood on parts of the field and in some places the players' feet sunk into the field  or  inches.
49_chicago chicago It rained throughout the game and a strong wind from the north gave the team defending that goal a decided advantage."
50_chicago chicago The conditions on the field were so poor that the schools' marching bands declined the usual halftime parade across the field and instead played from the cinder path around the field.
51_chicago chicago , head  the  fice  the      described the damage: "Our investigation convinced me that the tragedy resulted from an explosion somewhere in the region  the baggage compartment in the rear  the plane.
52_chicago chicago Everything in front of the compartment was blown forward, everything behind blown backward, and things at the side outward."
53_chicago chicago He also noted: "The gasoline tanks, instead of being blown out, were crushed in, showing there was no explosion in them."
54_chicago chicago As many as  heat related deaths were reported in the  , and  direct and  indirect deaths in .
55_chicago chicago Many people suffered from heat stroke and heat exhaustion, particularly the elderly.
56_chicago chicago Unlike , air conditioning was in the early stages of development and was therefore absent from houses and commercial buildings.
57_chicago chicago Many of the deaths occurred in high population density areas of , ,  , , ,  and other urban areas.
58_chicago chicago Farmers across the continent saw crop failure, causing corn and wheat prices to rise quickly.
59_chicago chicago Droughts and heat waves were common in  .
60_chicago chicago are remembered as  driest and warmest  for   (   ) and     was  most widespread and destructive heat wave to occur in   in .
61_chicago chicago The Canadiens went from last to  in the  .
62_chicago chicago was just hitting his stride in  , when tragedy struck.
63_chicago chicago On  of his hurtling rushes, he was being checked by   of  when his left skate got caught in the dasher of the end boards, and  suffered a badly fractured leg.
64_chicago chicago After suffering a nervous breakdown worrying about if he'd be able to come back, more bad luck occurred.
65_chicago chicago On    X-rays revealed that  had blood clots in his healing leg.
66_chicago chicago An operation was scheduled for   , but when  ate a light supper and told  nurse he wanted to rest, in falling asleep his pallor suddenly changed and  nurse knew something was wrong.
67_chicago chicago A blood clot had stopped his heart, and attempts to revive  failed.
68_chicago chicago News of 's death shocked the hockey world, and thousands filed  his bier, many in tears, to pay their last respects.
69_chicago chicago On      made his  debut for the    and gained a 1-0 shutout over the  .
70_chicago chicago He was the  goaltender to have a shutout in his  debut.
71_chicago chicago had hit the bottom in –, and   was obtained to shore up the defence.
72_chicago chicago But the most loved of all movements was buying   back from the .
73_chicago chicago The Canadiens went from last to  in the  .
74_chicago chicago was just hitting his stride in  , when tragedy struck.
75_chicago chicago On  of his hurtling rushes, he was being checked by   of  when his left skate got caught in the dasher of the end boards, and  suffered a badly fractured leg.
76_chicago chicago After suffering a nervous breakdown worrying about if he'd be able to come back, more bad luck occurred.
77_chicago chicago On    X-rays revealed that  had blood clots in his healing leg.
78_chicago chicago An operation was scheduled for   , but when  ate a light supper and told  nurse he wanted to rest, in falling asleep his pallor suddenly changed and  nurse knew something was wrong.
79_chicago chicago A blood clot had stopped his heart, and attempts to revive  failed.
80_chicago chicago News of 's death shocked the hockey world, and thousands filed  his bier, many in tears, to pay their last respects.
81_chicago chicago On  , a tropical storm formed in the    just off the coast of .
82_chicago chicago It drifted northwestward, and made landfall on  on  .
83_chicago chicago It moved northward along the western border  , and after crossing southeastern  the storm entered the    near  del Carmen on  .
84_chicago chicago As it traversed northwestward it strengthened, and became a hurricane on  .It turned more to the north and intensified to a major hurricane on   as it neared the  coastline.
85_chicago chicago It rapidly attained peak winds of  mph ( km/h).
86_chicago chicago Subsequently, the made landfall near ,  on   as a Category  hurricane.
87_chicago chicago The lowest recorded pressure was  mbar, and estimates place the minimum central pressure near  mbar.
88_chicago chicago The hurricane rapidly weakened to a tropical storm as it turned northeastward over land, though it maintained tropical storm status until   while over .
89_chicago chicago As a tropical depression it accelerated northeastward, and later that  it dissipated near , .
90_chicago chicago The storm moved ashore near  during the night of  , and after significantly weakening, it passed directly over ; the next storm to do so would be Hurricane  in 198.
91_chicago chicago Upon moving inland, the hurricane quickly deteriorated, and is estimated to have downgraded into a tropical storm within   of making landfall.
92_chicago chicago It turned northeastward as it continued through the central  , weakening to a tropical depression by  .
93_chicago chicago It persisted until  , when it is believed to have dissipated near , .
94_chicago chicago At 5:30 P.M., another strong, later F4-estimated, tornado touched down near  .
95_chicago chicago Near the beginning of its path, the tornado downed multiple trees and  high transmission electrical towers.
96_chicago chicago It strengthened and in the space of  , tore a 16.2-mile ( mph ground speed) swath of destruction through  , Hometown,  , and devastated the south side of  before moving offshore to   as people were stuck in traffic during  rush .
97_chicago chicago Many of the deaths occurred at traffic lights, where vehicles were thrown by the tornado.
98_chicago chicago For that reason, this tornado ended up being the deadliest in the outbreak.
99_chicago chicago people were killed and  were injured, including  deaths alone at the intersection of   and W.  St. (US-12/) in  .
100_chicago chicago Several children were killed when a roller skating rink was struck.
101_chicago chicago A high school, grocery store, tavern, market, motel, drive-in theater, restaurant, numerous apartments, and  gas stations were destroyed as well.
102_chicago chicago A mobile home court was also destroyed and a large brick factory structure was damaged as well.
103_chicago chicago It destroyed  homes and damaged , causing $50 million in damage.
104_chicago chicago thunderstorms produced sleet, freezing rain, and snow in  .
105_chicago chicago , on  , a blizzard crippled , dumping  of snow on the city.
106_chicago chicago The earthquake was felt in  states and affected a zone of .
107_chicago chicago The shaking extended east to  and  , south to  and , north to , , and west to .
108_chicago chicago Isolated reports were received from , Mobile, , , , southern , , , , , , , , ,  ,  , ,  , , , , ,  , , , and , presumably because of shaking.
109_chicago chicago The worst affected areas were in the general area of , ,  , and , but there was no major damage.
110_chicago chicago There were no deaths; the worst injury was a child knocked unconscious by falling debris outside his home.
111_chicago chicago Due to the foggy conditions and limited visibility at the airport, it took controllers    to determine that something had happened to North Central Flight .
112_chicago chicago they did, they lerted the   , which rrived t the scene    lter,  s fter the crsh.
113_chicago chicago Employing  crash and fire vehicles and  ambulances, the fire department extinguished the fire in    at around 6:19 p.m. CDT.
114_chicago chicago Widespread significantly severe damaging wind occurred in many areas across eastern  and the northwestern  of .
115_chicago chicago Many corn fields were flattened and trees were downed, and light structural damage occurred.
116_chicago chicago was cut to thousands across the western and northwestern suburbs of .
117_chicago chicago Around 5:05 pm, a rope-like tornado with multiple funnels was sighted on a farm southwest of , , following a left-curving path, before lifting  south of , leaving crop damage and was rated F0 with a path length of  and width of .
118_chicago chicago A wind gust of  was measured near  and a funnel cloud was spotted at .
119_chicago chicago Lightning also damaged several houses and buildings.
120_chicago chicago woman was killed when venturing outside to close her car windows and a six-story   warehouse was ignited into a large fire.
121_chicago chicago The  tornado of a complex combination of tornado family and extreme downbursts touched down at 4:30 p.m. about  west of the small city of  (or  southwest of ) and immediately grew to very large size in agrarian central  .
122_chicago chicago It continued meandering rural areas with an average movement of easterly roughly near  Route  for  before ending about  southeast of .
123_chicago chicago A grain elevator was leveled and blown about  away.
124_chicago chicago Total damages were around $250,000.
125_chicago chicago A    team headed by   surveyed the damage path as  wide at times and suction spot crop damage indicated a multiple vortex tornado.
126_chicago chicago The nursing home was equipped with a manual and automatic fire alarm system that is connected directly to the fire alarm office of the   .
127_chicago chicago The alarm system was designed to give out a code or box number of the alarm station when activated.
128_chicago chicago The manual fire alarm system consisted of  pull fire alarm boxes located on each floor and  fire alarm box located at the entrance of the building.
129_chicago chicago The automatic fire alarms are activated by heat sensors which are located on the  floor, both stairways and in the storage closet.
130_chicago chicago The automatic fire alarm system also consisted of smoke detectors.
131_chicago chicago On the  floor,  fire extinguishers and  public address loud speakers were installed.
132_chicago chicago The " Wincrest Nursing Home fire" took place on     in  .
133_chicago chicago The fire occurred when an arsonist set a wardrobe closet on fire at the    building, located at  N. Winthrop Avenue.
134_chicago chicago The alarm sounded at 11:30 a.m. and the fire was put out at 1:30 p.m.
135_chicago chicago Although the building itself sustained minor smoke, fire and water damage,  people died from smoke inhalation.
136_chicago chicago A    housekeeper was arrested by authorities and was charged with multiple counts of arson.
137_chicago chicago The fire was put out at 1:28 p.m. CDT.
138_chicago chicago The room where the fire broke out was completely gutted and the adjacent corridor sustained only moderate smoke and heat damage.
139_chicago chicago other rooms also suffered heat and smoke damage.
140_chicago chicago No smoke damage was evident on the  or  floors and water damage was minor.
141_chicago chicago However despite the minor damage to the building,  fatalities were reported due to smoke inhalation.
142_chicago chicago An investigation made by the    and fire department.
143_chicago chicago The survivors claimed that the fire was started in a plywood wardrobe closet in   which was unoccupied at the time.
144_chicago chicago Although the actual cause  the fire was unknown, the     arrested a housekeeper who was charged with multiple counts  arson.
145_chicago chicago It is unclear, however, how the authorities determined that the fire was an act of arson, and the arsonist's motives for starting the fire were never noted.
146_chicago chicago At the time of the fire, the building was occupied by  residents,  nurses,  aides and  office, kitchen and maintenance staff.
147_chicago chicago of the residents were in the chapel room on the  floor of the building.
148_chicago chicago Fire was reported in room  by a nurse’s aide who pulled the fire alarm box.
149_chicago chicago The alarm was received by the    at 11:43 A.M (CDT).
150_chicago chicago Attempts to put out the fire by staff proved to no avail.
151_chicago chicago The  fire engine arrived at the scene of the fire   and    as nursing home staff evacuated the burning building.
152_chicago chicago More fire engines arrived   as smoke was seen rising from the top of the building.
153_chicago chicago At 11:46 A.M., firefighters fighting the fire, discovered the  floor heavily laden with smoke and trapped elderly patients in wheelchairs.
154_chicago chicago The victims were immediately removed from the burning building and were transported to nearby hospitals.
155_chicago chicago The "  Loop derailment" occurred on    when a    elevated train rear-ended another on the northeast corner of the Loop at   and   during the evening rush .
156_chicago chicago The collision forced the   cars of the rear train off the elevated tracks, killing  people and injuring over  as the cars fell onto the street below.
157_chicago chicago It remains the single worst accident in the agency's history.
158_chicago chicago According to the  ,   had "the worst record in the nation" for issuing warnings for severe storms, only issuing warnings 24% of the time when a warning was justifiable.
159_chicago chicago Even , many meteorologists refer to the " Syndrome" as the idea that it's better to issue too many warnings and be wrong than to miss  critical warning, as was the case for the  Tornado.
160_chicago chicago At some point after the  tornado, the    reduced the  office's workload by creating an office in ,  and allowing offices in the Quad Cities,  , , ,  and ,  to issue forecasts for their respective areas.
161_chicago chicago The "  tornado" was a devastating tornado that occurred on the afternoon of    .
162_chicago chicago The violent tornado killed  people and injured .
163_chicago chicago It is the only F5 tornado ever recorded in  and the only F5 tornado to ever strike the  area.
164_chicago chicago There are few known videos or photographs of the tornado.
165_chicago chicago Conditions were ripe for severe thunderstorm development, and with both low level and high level steering winds from the west-northwest, the      issued a  Thunderstorm Watch for northern  valid 1:30 p.m. through 8:00 p.m. CDT that night.
166_chicago chicago The  predicted a derecho-type event for later that night as rapidly developing thunderstorms along a cold front in  would be carried by the steering flow into the  area.
167_chicago chicago of these storms developed supercellular characteristics south of , steering  to  degrees to the right of prevailing steering winds.
168_chicago chicago By , mid-level steering winds had begun to veer, causing a wind profile slightly more favorable for tornadic development.
169_chicago chicago This helped develop a high precipitation supercell.
170_chicago chicago In   following  tornado,   Wear  was heavily criticized for providing no warning of  approaching tornado.
171_chicago chicago The  Disaster Survey Report was highly critical of the forecast process within the  office as well as coordination with local spotter networks and the preparedness of these groups.
172_chicago chicago Prior to , the    in  was responsible for providing forecasts for the entire state of .
173_chicago chicago As the  office was overwhelmed with its workload, no warnings were issued by the office until 2:32 p.m. &mdash;    after the  tornado was sighted southeast of .
174_chicago chicago severe thunderstorm warning was issued almost     3:23 p.m., but this provided no indicion th a tornado was on the ground d did not mention the area where the tornado had tracked.
175_chicago chicago No tornado warning was issued until after the tornado lifted.
176_chicago chicago In eastern ,    shattered many of    snowfall records.
177_chicago chicago The  inches that fell in the Twin Cities on   was more snow than had ever been recorded in any  in its recorded history.
178_chicago chicago saw similar daily records , but with a more wide reaching area from most of central  eastward to   and  , .
179_chicago chicago Following the storm  air poured southward from  to produce many record low temperatures in these same areas.
180_chicago chicago ,  , sank to − F on  , breaking their previous record low of  by  degrees.
181_chicago chicago Record snow and cold was recorded as far south as  and .
182_chicago chicago The  air also spread over , recording a low of  on  .
183_chicago chicago The "  heat wave" was a heat wave which led to approximately  heat-related deaths in  over a period of  .
184_chicago chicago , author of the  book "Heat Wave: A Social Autopsy of Disaster in ", has noted that in the  , the loss of human life in hot spells in  exceeds that caused by all other weather events combined, including lightning, rain, floods, hurricanes, and tornadoes.
185_chicago chicago The heat wave heavily impacted the wider Midwestern region, with additional deaths in both  ,  and , , as well.
186_chicago chicago The temperatures soared to record highs in  with the hottest weather occurring from   to  .
187_chicago chicago The high of  on   was the  warmest  temperature (warmest being  set on   ) since records began at     in .
188_chicago chicago Nighttime low temperatures were unusually high; in the upper 70s and lower  F (about  C)&mdash;as well.
189_chicago chicago Record humidity levels also accompanied the hot weather.
190_chicago chicago The heat index reached  at  airport, and  at  .
191_chicago chicago Impacts in the  urban center were exacerbated by an urban heat island that raised nocturnal temperatures by more than .
192_chicago chicago Urban heat islands are caused by  concentration of buildings and pavement in urban areas, which tend to absorb more heat in   and radiate less heat at night into ir immediate surroundings than comparable rural sites.
193_chicago chicago Therefore, built-up areas get hotter and stay hotter.
194_chicago chicago Other aggravating factors were inadequate warnings, power failures, inadequate ambulance service and hospital facilities, and lack of preparation.
195_chicago chicago City officials did not release a heat emergency warning until    of  heat wave.
196_chicago chicago Thus, such emergency measures as 's  cooling centers were not fully utilized.
197_chicago chicago The medical system of  was severely taxed as thousands were taken to local hospitals with heat-related problems.
198_chicago chicago Another powerful factor in the heat wave was that a temperature inversion grew over the city, and air stagnated in this situation.
199_chicago chicago Pollutants and humidity were confined to ground level, and the air was becalmed and devoid of wind.
200_chicago chicago Without wind to stir the air, temperatures grew even hotter than could be expected with just an urban heat island, and without wind there was truly no relief.
201_chicago chicago Without any way to relieve the heat, even the inside of homes became ovens, with indoor temperature exceeding  at night.
202_chicago chicago This was especially noticeable in areas which experienced frequent power outages.
203_chicago chicago At   just north of ,  school students lived in dormitories without air conditioning.
204_chicago chicago In order to ease the effects of the heat, some of the students slept at night with water-soaked towels as blankets.
205_chicago chicago About  people were on the top wooden balcony at the time of the collapse.
206_chicago chicago According to  witness, the sound of splintering wood was heard immediately before the collapse, which occurred shortly after midnight local time.
207_chicago chicago The collapse started on the  floor, pulling down other balconies below.
208_chicago chicago The , ,   floor balconies all collapsed into the basement below, carrying a total of approximately   people among them.
209_chicago chicago Several people were also trapped in a basement stairwell.
210_chicago chicago Survivors helped to pull victims out from under the debris of the balconies, and rescue workers had to use chainsaws to free others.
211_chicago chicago of the survivors was a nurse, and had started a rescue effort before the emergency services arrived.
212_chicago chicago The    supplied the main rescue effort.
213_chicago chicago people were killed in the collapse, with  more subsequently dying while hospitalized;  people were injured.
214_chicago chicago In , the city of  filed a negligence lawsuit against  of the survivors,   and  .
215_chicago chicago The city alleged that the  balcony collapse occurred after defendants Fenton-Hathaway and  "intentionally and negligently" began jumping up and down on the porch.
216_chicago chicago 's brother,  , was killed in the collapse.
217_chicago chicago The charges against Fenton-Hathaway and  were later dropped.
218_chicago chicago On    the deadliest porch collapse in   history occurred in .
219_chicago chicago An overloaded balcony collapsed during a party in an apartment building, killing  people and seriously injuring  others.
220_chicago chicago The ensuing investigation was highly critical of the way the balcony was built, finding a large number of errors in its construction which ultimately resulted in the collapse.
221_chicago chicago However, the building's owner continues to blame overcrowding on the balcony for its complete structural failure, although he has taken steps to strengthen the balconies at his properties to prevent a recurrence of the disaster.
222_chicago chicago The accident resulted in sweeping inspections of  similar structures across , with  cases being actioned by the city authorities.
223_chicago chicago As the evacuating crowd pushed open the doors, several people already climbing the stairs were knocked down and subsequently pinned by the ensuing crush.
224_chicago chicago Security attempted to pull them to safety, but the pile rapidly reached  feet in height as a result of more than  simultaneously attempting to escape the chaos inside.
225_chicago chicago , a former E2 guard who had worked at trying to free trapped patrons, recalled to the "Chicago Sun-Times" in   that he had heard other clubbers atop the stairs laughing at the fracas, unaware of the fatalities stemming from the ground-floor pileup.
226_chicago chicago On   at  ,   won his  race, breaking the all-time record for most wins in an IRL season.
227_chicago chicago was involved in a fiery crash with   on lap .
228_chicago chicago was taken by helicopter to a  hospital with head and back pain, but was alert.
229_chicago chicago He suffered a concussion,  broken collarbones, a bruised lung and contusions to his arms and legs.
230_chicago chicago The accident resulted in a  red flag.
231_chicago chicago Just north of  at   the temperature reached  C ( F) on   006.
232_chicago chicago On   ,  nighttime minimum temperature in  was  highest ever recorded, only dropping to  C ( F).
233_chicago chicago In , the temperature reached  C ( F), but with close to 80% humidity factored in, it reached an all-time humidex record of  C ( F).
234_chicago chicago "^" [
235_chicago chicago records power consumption record] "^" [
236_chicago chicago Quebec storm]  "^" , .
237_chicago chicago ().
238_chicago chicago Heat Wave: A Social Autopsy of Disaster in .
239_chicago chicago , IL:   .
240_chicago chicago "See also" a related discussion of deaths due to cold.
241_chicago chicago "^" [http://www.magazine.noaa.gov/stories/mag08.htm HEAT – THE NUMBER  NON-SEVERE WEATHER RELATED KILLER IN THE  ]     006.
242_chicago chicago Record power consumption was recorded in  when close to  MW were used by consumers, beating out a record from   .
243_chicago chicago In    heat,  saw at least  deaths, but  City was widely praised for avoiding  disaster that occurred in    heat wave which saw over  deaths.
244_chicago chicago The City took steps to ensure vulnerable residents were protected, and individuals took responsibility for their neighbors.
245_chicago chicago The city  ,  was deluged in   preceding  major flooding during     .
246_chicago chicago On   200  was hit by  to  inches (12–18 mm) of rain.
247_chicago chicago Many streets, including main thoroughfares, were flooded.
248_chicago chicago There was also fear that the Alpine Dam might break.
249_chicago chicago , Governor   declared both  and   a state disaster area.
250_chicago chicago With this declaration, he dispatched both the     and the      to assist the city.
251_chicago chicago Debris removal, law enforcement, damage assessment, and other physical assistance were offered by the governor.
252_chicago chicago on  , violent storms rolled through the  area.
253_chicago chicago A Tornado Warning was issued for all of  during the  storm and a tornado touched down in .
254_chicago chicago The  storm was more rain and lightning.
255_chicago chicago Governor   declared , ,  (including ), DuPage, and  counties to be disaster areas after the storm.
256_chicago chicago Though not affected by flooding as it was on  , the city of  received  inches ( mm) of rain, setting an all time record for 's wettest  in recorded climate data history, with a total of  inches ( mm) of rain.
257_chicago chicago The storm shut down airports (including    and Midway  ), uprooted trees and left over  residents in northern  without power, some for  .
258_chicago chicago [http://wmaq.weatherplus.com/weathernews/13960081/detail.html
259_chicago chicago News]  It also caused flooding on streets and major expressways shuch as the Bishop Ford Freeway.
260_chicago chicago Wind gusts registered as high as  miles per  ( km/h) in the area, with the highest being reported in .
261_chicago chicago A small tornado was also reported in  in a    .
262_chicago chicago Rainfall totals in  and LaSalle Counties topped  records.
263_chicago chicago Flooding across northern  was widespread in the aftermath of the storms.
264_chicago chicago Along the   in , the river reached moderate flood stage on  ; moderate stage is above  feet ( m).
265_chicago chicago Officials in   recommended that people in low-lying areas along the  , and along   near , evacuate to higher ground.
266_chicago chicago Downstream, in   at , the river had not reached flood stage as off  , though it continued to rise.
267_chicago chicago Other rivers and streams in the   valley experienced moderate to major flooding as well.
268_chicago chicago The   at  crested at  feet ( m), more than  feet above flood stage.
269_chicago chicago The same river also rose above flood stage in .
270_chicago chicago After  inches ( mm) of rain fell on   and  in  , at , the     rose to its highest level since  and its  highest level in recorded history.
271_chicago chicago Numerous roads and bridges were closed, and the cities of  and  declared local emergencies, though   was not included in 's initial disaster declaration.
272_chicago chicago received state disaster area designation from  on  .
273_chicago chicago In DeKalb and , about  residents were displaced from their homes, and the DeKalb campus of    was closed because of the flood.
274_chicago chicago The   at  crested after it rose to more than  feet ( m), over  feet above the river's flood stage.
275_chicago chicago In ,  the Fox rose up around the historic  , a mon architecture masterpiece designed by     .
276_chicago chicago Preservationists used a boat to save the home and its furnishings, which  had been devastated by high water in .
277_chicago chicago With the boat, preservationists were able to enter the house and move vulnerable furnishings to higher locations within the home.
278_chicago chicago Water rose to within a foot of the  's raised platform, covering the terrace in front of the home, but the river crested before any damage occurred.
279_chicago chicago At Starved Rock State Park, parking lots were closed due to the level of the  , which stood at  feet on  ,  feet ( m) above its flood stage.
280_chicago chicago As a consequence of Hurricane Ike damaging the  area,  games between the   and   were relocated to   in , .
281_chicago chicago Although  was picked as a "neutral" site whose retractable roof would ensure the game would be played in the event of inclement weather,  's location  from  – and well over  from  – resulted in a decidedly  crowd in a series where  was officially designated as the home team.
282_chicago chicago Adding to the controversy from the  perspective was the fact that Turner Field in  had been suggested by the players' union as a potential neutral site.
283_chicago chicago This would mark the  time in as many  that a series was moved to neutral Miller Park due to weather, as a series between the   and   was relocated there    as a consequence of snow storms in northern .
284_chicago chicago Moisture from  eventually joined with a cold front and the remnants of Hurricane Ike and caused significant damage.
285_chicago chicago As this conglomeration of moisture traveled through the   it caused extensive flooding in .
286_chicago chicago In  it broke flooding records dating back to .
287_chicago chicago Southwest of , , the area of thunderstorms strengthened into Tropical Storm  on the night of  .
288_chicago chicago The system skipped tropical depression status and was named "Lowell".
289_chicago chicago slowly strengthened into a  mph Tropical Storm.
290_chicago chicago A tropical storm watch was issued for southern   as the storm headed north, but it weakened to a tropical depression on  .
291_chicago chicago Tropical Depression  made landfall with  mph winds.
292_chicago chicago It moved inland and dissipated  on  .
293_chicago chicago The remnants of Tropical Storm  continued across the   and joined with a cold front bringing heavy rains to the central northern states before tracking into .
294_chicago chicago It caused the heaviest rainstorm ever recorded in  since records began in .
295_chicago chicago Over  flight cancellations were reported at 's   , and numerous flight cancellations also occurred at 's Pearson  .
296_chicago chicago In , whiteout conditions and  inches ( cm) of snow briefly shut down the    .
297_chicago chicago Near Madison, , about  vehicles were stranded on Interstate  due to the snow.
298_chicago chicago Governor   declared a state of emergency for the area and activated the  National Guard.
299_chicago chicago On  , numerous schools, colleges, government buildings, churches, businesses, and shopping malls were forced to close throughout southern  and northern  due to the inclement weather.
300_chicago chicago The  storm was responsible for at least  deaths:  each in , ,  and .
301_chicago chicago showers brought more bad weather and injuries to the club.
302_chicago chicago joined  as the most  injured when he also went down in training with a hamstring strain.
303_chicago chicago The patchwork defense returned home for    match of  season featuring rookie and  round pick   in  back line against a n potent attacking SJ Earthquakes team.
304_chicago chicago For        club fced difficult wer conditions (freezg r nd wd gusts up to  MPH).
305_chicago chicago They responded with a better effort, shutting out the Quakes and securing their  win of the season .
306_chicago chicago brought a trip to  to face the undefeated expansion .
307_chicago chicago The Wizards controlled   half despite not scoring and saw   go down a man in    when goalkeeper   used his hands outside of  box to deflect a scoring chance from  fast breaking  .
308_chicago chicago The Wizards couldn't capitalize in    and   looked  better side in    until   launched a game-winning missile from  yards out in    to deliver   goal surrendered and  loss to .
309_chicago chicago The road trip continued onto the Eastern Conference leading  Fire.
310_chicago chicago The Fire sharply outplayed the relatively sluggish Wizards for the entire  half and most of the  half, with   scoring  early goals.
311_chicago chicago However goalkeeper   made several spectacular saves to prevent  from any further scoring, and the  were able to muster a comeback late in the  half, with   scoring  goals of his own to equalize the match .
312_chicago chicago The Wizards welcomed   to town for the  ever  telecast from   ,   defender   took   down in the box just   into the match and received a red card for denying an obvious goal-scoring opportunity.
313_chicago chicago Neither team played particularly well following the ejection of  but   got the  points as a result of   slotting the resulting penalty kick  newly reinstated  , who had served the longest "performance-enhancing drug" suspension ever in   .
314_chicago chicago didn't make the final road trip of  to  as a result of the concussion he suffered just  .
315_chicago chicago The  missed their holding midfielder as  played their  match under interim manager   as   stepped down.
316_chicago chicago was also missing star player    (injured) but  's scramble goal in    and 's clean sheet was enough to end    regular season game streak of scoring at least  goal ( longest in  team history).
317_chicago chicago 's  ended with his family being in a car wreck on the way to the final home game and him personally being fined for comments he made to the officials following the lost in  which he explained was a result of having his passport stolen just  before the trip and having to fly to  to secure a new  in person(The fine was paid for by the club's supporters group as a sign of respect for all he had been through).
318_chicago chicago Heavy rain in parts of the  prompted the    to issue Flood Warnings for many areas.
319_chicago chicago The max rainfall amount recorded so far is  in  , .
320_chicago chicago Freezing rain fell across  and , affecting travel to and from   .
321_chicago chicago The  area saw as much as  inches of snow following the freezing rain and sleet.
322_chicago chicago width=100% border="" cellpadding="" style="border-collapse:collapse; text-align:center;" |[http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/0001/Dernier-Match/1163/Pontivy-PSG
323_chicago chicago &ndash; ] [http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/41/Dernier-Match/1164/Nantes-PSG
324_chicago chicago &ndash; ] [http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/4/Dernier-Match/65/PSG-Panthrakikos  &ndash; ] [http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/4/Dernier-Match/67/Fiorentina-PSG
325_chicago chicago &ndash; ] [http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/24/Dernier-Match/62/Glasgow-Rangers-PSG  &ndash; ] [http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/24/Dernier-Match/6/Atletico-Madrid-PSG  &ndash; ] [http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/24/Dernier-Match/69/PSG-Braga  &ndash; ] [http://www.psg.fr/fr/Saison/24/Dernier-Match/72/Vannes-PSG
326_chicago chicago &ndash; ]  ,  ,  , Erdinç  [http://www.chicago-fire.com/news/21/5/fall-paris-saint-germain-1-
327_chicago chicago &ndash; ] align="left" Red Star  [http://www.chicago-fire.com/news//5/red-star-edge-psg  &ndash; ]– p. width=% border="" cellpadding="" style="border-collapse:collapse; text-align:center;" [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/99  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/98  &ndash; ]   () [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/989  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/9  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/9  &ndash; ]   (Basse-Normandie) [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/95  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/  &ndash; ] Stéphane Lannoy (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/5  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/5  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/998  &ndash; ] Clément , Chantôme , Erdinç ,   [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/5
328_chicago chicago &ndash; ]   (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/76  &ndash; ] Chantôme ,  , Erdinç ,   [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/768  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/  &ndash; ]   () [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/7  &ndash; ]  ,  , Erdinç  [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/789  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/799  &ndash; ]  ,  , Erdinç ,   Stéphane Lannoy (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/86  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/87
329_chicago chicago &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/4488  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/44835
330_chicago chicago &ndash; ]   () [http://www.ligue1.com/ligue1/feuille_match/44848
331_chicago chicago &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/44855  &ndash; ] Stéphane Lannoy (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/44865
332_chicago chicago &ndash; ]   (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/87  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/88  &ndash; ]   (Rhône-Alpes) [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/89  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/92  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/95  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/922  &ndash; ]   (Rhône-Alpes) [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/9
333_chicago chicago &ndash; ]   () [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/9  &ndash; ]   () [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/97  &ndash; ] Stéphane Lannoy (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/9  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/  &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/ligue/feuille_match/  &ndash; ]   (Rhône-Alpes) width=% border="" cellpadding="" style="border-collapse:collapse; text-align:center;" [http://www.deux-zero.com/index.php?Code=CF&Item=Fiche&Edition=9-&MatchId=8  &ndash; ]  ,  , Chantôme ,   Hervé Piccirillo (Île-de-France) [http://www.deux-zero.com/index.php?Code=CF&Item=Fiche&Edition=9-&MatchId=  &ndash; ] [http://www.deux-zero.com/index.php?Code=CF&Item=Fiche&Edition=9-&MatchId=  &ndash; ]   () [http://www.footballdatabase.eu/football.coupe.auxerre.paris-s-g.77.en.html  &ndash; ](a.e.t.) – p. [http://www.deux-zero.com/index.php?Code=CF&Item=Fiche&Edition=9-&MatchId=  &ndash; ]   (Basse-Normandie) [http://www.deux-zero.com/index.php?Code=CF&Item=Fiche&Edition=9-&JourneeId=9  &ndash; ](a.e.t.) width=% border="" cellpadding="" style="border-collapse:collapse; text-align:center;" [http://www.ligue.com/coupeLigue/feuille_match/
334_chicago chicago &ndash; ] [http://www.ligue.com/coupeLigue/feuille_match/  &ndash; ] width=% border="" cellpadding="" style="border-collapse:collapse; text-align:center;" [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ]  ,  , ,  , Stribick-Burckel    (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ]  ,  ,  ,     () [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ]  , Abily ,  ,     (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=8  &ndash; ] [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ]  ,  , Abily , ,  , Prévost    () [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ]   (Franche-Comté) [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] Dorothée Ily () [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] Abily ,  , ,  ,     (Franche-Comté) [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ]  ,  ,  ,     () [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=8  &ndash; ] Prévost ,  ,   [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ] [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ]   (Rhône-Alpes) [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=8  &ndash; ]   (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) width=% border="" cellpadding="" style="border-collapse:collapse; text-align:center;" [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ]   (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ]– p.   (Nord-Pas-de-Calais) [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ]  ,  , Lepailleur ,   [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=  &ndash; ]– p.   (Franche-Comté) [http://www.statsfootofeminin.fr/match.php?id=8  &ndash; ]  ,  ,  ,
335_chicago chicago It was felt across most of  and , as well as parts of the northeastern  , in addition to places as far as , , ,  , and .
336_chicago chicago It was the  moderate earthquake associated with the     since   02, when the area was affected by magnitude  Mw tremors.
337_chicago chicago Southern  was also affected by the  magnitude  Mw Pymatuning earthquake, associated with a different seismic region (Southern Great Lakes Seismic Zone).
338_chicago chicago , a large futures exchange, stated that, insofar as stock index futures traded on   were concerned, its investigation found no evidence that high-frequency trading played a role, and in fact concluded that automated trading had contributed to market stability during the period of the crash.
339_chicago chicago Others speculate that an intermarket sweep order may have played a role in triggering the crash.
340_chicago chicago #"The fat-finger theory:" "Disproved."
341_chicago chicago In the immediate aftermath of the plunge, several reports indicated that the event may have been triggered by a fat-finger trade, an inadvertent large "sell order" for    stock, inciting massive algorithmic trading orders to dump the stock; however, this theory was quickly disproved after it was determined that   's decline occurred after a significant decline in the E-mini SP  Futures contracts.
342_chicago chicago The "fat-finger trade" hypothesis was also disproved when it was determined that existing   and ICE safeguards would have prevented such an error.
343_chicago chicago , the fat-finger theory is not considered credible.
344_chicago chicago #"Impact of High Frequency traders:" "Regulators found HFT's exacerbated price declines."
345_chicago chicago As noted above, regulators found that high frequency traders exacerbated price declines.
346_chicago chicago Regulators determined that high frequency traders sold aggressively to eliminate their positions and withdrew from the markets in the face of uncertainty.
347_chicago chicago A   report by the      () an international body  securities regulators concluded that while "algorithms and HFT technology have been used by market participants to manage their trading and risk their usage was also clearly a contributing factor in the flash crash event    ."
348_chicago chicago Other theories postulate that the actions of high frequency traders (HFTs) was the underlying cause of the flash crash.
349_chicago chicago hypothesis based on the analysis of bid-offer data by   is that HFTs send non-executable orders (orders that are outside the bid-offer spread) to exchanges in batches.
350_chicago chicago Though the purpose of these orders is unknown, some experts speculate that their purpose is to increase noise, clog exchanges, and outwit competitors.
351_chicago chicago However, other experts believe that deliberate market manipulation is unlikely because there is no practical way in which the HFTs can profit from these orders, and it is more likely that these orders are designed to test latency times and to detect early price trends.
352_chicago chicago Whatever the reasons behind the possible existence of these orders, this theory postulates that they exacerbated the crash by overloading the exchanges on  .
353_chicago chicago On    the regulators probing the crash concluded: "that quote-stuffing – placing and then almost immediately cancelling large numbers of rapid-fire orders to buy or sell stocks – was not a “major factor” in the turmoil."
354_chicago chicago Some have put forth the theory  trading actually have been a major factor in minimizing and reversing the flash crash.
355_chicago chicago #"Large directional bets:" "Regulators say a large E-Mini   seller set off a chain of events triggering the Flash Crash, but did not identify the firm."
356_chicago chicago Earlier, some investigators suggested that a large purchase of put options on the   index by the hedge fund   shortly before the crash may have been among the primary causes.
357_chicago chicago Other reports have speculated that the event may have been triggered by a single sale of  E-mini   contracts valued at around $4 billion by the  ,  firm    on the   .
358_chicago chicago Others suspect a movement in the  Dollar to   exchange rate.
359_chicago chicago #"Changes in market structure:" Some market structure experts speculate that, whatever the underlying causes, equity markets are vulnerable to these sort of events because of decentralization of trading.
360_chicago chicago #"Technical glitches:" An analysis of trading on the exchanges during the moments immediately prior to the flash crash reveals technical glitches in the reporting of prices on the  and various ATSs that might have contributed to the drying up of liquidity.
361_chicago chicago According to this theory, technical problems at the  led to delays as long as   in  quotes being reported on the Consolidated Quotation System (CQS) with time stamps indicating that the quotes were .
362_chicago chicago However, some market participants (those with access to 's own quote reporting system, OpenBook) could see both correct   quotes, as well as the delayed but apparently  CQS quotes.
363_chicago chicago At the same time, there were errors in the prices of some stocks ( , , and some ETFs).
364_chicago chicago Confused and uncertain about prices, many market participants attempted to drop out of the market by posting stub quotes (very low bids and very high offers) and, at the same time, many high-frequency trading algorithms attempted to exit the market with market orders (which were executed at the stub quotes) leading to a domino effect that resulted in the flash crash plunge.
365_chicago chicago Prior to  , the inflatable roof of the    , home of the  , buckled and tore as a result of heavy snowfall in , spilling snow onto Mall of  field and rendering the stadium unusable for the remainder of the ' season.
366_chicago chicago The ' scheduled home game against the    was moved to 's Ford Field and postponed to a 7:20 pm EST kickoff on .
367_chicago chicago Though stadium workers were initially "optimistic" that the roof could be repaired before the  faced the  Bears on  , stadium officials determined that such a repair would not be possible in that time frame and the game was moved to   .
368_chicago chicago For   became more related to  extreme high humidity, above normal rainfall from thunderstorms across much of , ,  and  in    leading up to  heat wave caused dew points to soar; in ,  where temperatures had been in   F,  dew point reached  on  ,  of  highest ever recorded in   .
369_chicago chicago The heat index reached  in , 's dew point of , matching readings from the  heat wave that caused many deaths.
370_chicago chicago ,   and   also experienced high humidity levels.
371_chicago chicago planned on protesting the funerals of the dead.
372_chicago chicago The residents of the city were mortified and several local groups created a "Shield of support" around the funeral processions with thousands attending, standing in large groups around the city.
373_chicago chicago and IEMA began doing preliminary damage assessments on    to determine the need for public assistance from .
374_chicago chicago The storm damage in  dominated national airwaves for   with both  , and   doing special reports.
375_chicago chicago Both the       wrote articles on the resilient history  nature of  in the wake of the tornado  floods that have hit the city since its founding in .
376_chicago chicago The tornado moved eastward before striking the town of , where additional severe damage occurred.
377_chicago chicago In , the tornado damaged about  homes and businesses, causing  critical injury and 2 minor injuries.
378_chicago chicago Numerous cars were tossed around, mainly on the east side of .
379_chicago chicago A large church building and a half  grain bins were completely destroyed.
380_chicago chicago Final assessment rated the tornado as an EF4 with wind gusts estimated at
381_chicago chicago The "Punch A.J." campaign was inspired by an incident on   06 between  and   catcher  .
382_chicago chicago After a fly ball out,  tagged up at  and tried to  on the throw.
383_chicago chicago After a collision at home, where  knocked  from his feet,  slapped home plate with his hand.
384_chicago chicago After getting up,  grabbed  and punched him in the face.
385_chicago chicago A bench-clearing brawl ensued, and , ,   outfielder   and   baseman   were ejected.
386_chicago chicago Later in , while pitching against the   in ,  was involved in  of baseball's more memorable brawls.
387_chicago chicago After  consecutive inside pitches,   charged the mound.
388_chicago chicago , seeming to have a plan, did not move until  was feet from him, about to throw a punch.
389_chicago chicago At   ,  slipped to his left as  threw  punch and    , having rushed to  mound from  base, crashed into .
390_chicago chicago Bell flipped backwards in the air, crashing to the ground as both of the benches emptied and the teams made their way to the mound [http://www.jokaroo.com/extremesports/baseball/baseballfight-georgebellaaronsele.html].
391_chicago chicago Steel eventually formed a tag team with    known as the L.A. Connection in Windy City Wrestling then the "Hollywood Hardbodies".
392_chicago chicago Along with Dominion,  operated the  , a professional wrestling school  minor independent promotion, in  between   .
393_chicago chicago Steel also wrestled for the  "St.
394_chicago chicago Paul Championship Wrestling" promotion and the   promotion "  Wrestling Alliance".
395_chicago chicago In   Steel joined Ring of Honor and reformed the Hatebreed with CM Punk.
396_chicago chicago On  ,  and Steel faced 's enemy  and another student of Steel's,  , in a tag match.
397_chicago chicago appeared to badly injure himself after botching a moonsault to the outside of the ring, forcing  to wrestle the majority of the match single-handedly.
398_chicago chicago eventually managed to defeat Steel following an  , but, after the match,  turned on him and aligned himself with his friend, , and his trainer, Steel.
399_chicago chicago Punk,  and  named themselves the " City Saints" (as all the stable members were from the " city", ).
400_chicago chicago started a feud with  Prophecy, mostly   and  .
401_chicago chicago The rivalry led to a  Street Fight.
402_chicago chicago The match had many dangerous spots including a Spear through a barbed wire board, a splash from inside the ring to the outside onto Maff on a ladder supported by the guardrails, and a Tombstone Piledriver off the top rope through a table.
403_chicago chicago Despite his backstage role  made occasional wrestling appearances in ROH notably during   pay-per-view in  on    taking the pin in the Steel Cage main event.
404_chicago chicago He also appeared at the " Anniversary Show" in    on    losing to   in   and at "Eye of the Storm " on    in   where he teamed with   in a loss to The Set.
405_chicago chicago 's highest level ROH match since Cage of Death also came in a cage against Homicide at "The  Spectacular: Night ", which  lost.
406_chicago chicago had originally challenged  to the  strap match in ROH history, only to have  rebuke it and throw out the cage challenge.
407_chicago chicago went on to tack and seemingly cost Homicide his chance  the     " Btle " in Homicide's mch against  .
408_chicago chicago ROH Senior Officials would have nothing of it and restarted the match, which  eventually won.
409_chicago chicago The feud with  seemingly went to the wayside, as  started interaction with   and Delirious.
410_chicago chicago At the end of the episode, it seems that 's quest will finally be complete as the ribs are cooked and ready to eat.
411_chicago chicago However, just as he is about to dig in, wounded are brought to the camp and  is foiled.
412_chicago chicago The episode ends with  stammering, as he is being pulled away from the table by  and Col. : "But the ribs...they're right there, and we have them...we called all the way to ...we had to trick ,  rib, a tiny rib, just  little riblet ..."
413_chicago chicago the ribs arrive but are stuck at supply.
414_chicago chicago and  go down to try to negotiate them from a stubborn supply sergeant, who is willing to help  he finds out where they're from (as he lives in , a  suburb, and is a huge fan of 's Ribs).
415_chicago chicago The supply sergeant offers to release the ribs in exchange for 20 pounds of ribs and a quart of sauce which  counters with 10 pounds of ribs and a pint of sauce.
416_chicago chicago After settling on 12 pounds of ribs and a pint and a half of the barbecue sauce going to the sergeant,  and  head back to the 4077th.
417_chicago chicago ,  and Trapper are brainstorming as to how they're going to get the ribs from  to the 4077th as dam's Ribs doesn't deliver and  called for a pickup order.
418_chicago chicago An angry , who was wearing a stole that he prized when he became an unwilling target for 's lunch, becomes a beacon of hope as he has an uncle in .
419_chicago chicago However,  refuses to help because he won't be able to get his Section  discharge papers signed (although both  and  are willing, none of the other  officers in the camp would do it as  signatures are required).
420_chicago chicago Fortunately for , Trapper remembers a woman named   with whom he had a "three-night stand"   and calls her to ask for help.
421_chicago chicago comes through for  and  and the ribs are on their way to  from 's   in a box marked "RUSH MEDICAL SUPPLIES."
422_chicago chicago The aerial cloudscapes painted by   in   and  are a special case.
423_chicago chicago Many of them are not landscapes at all, since they don't show any land.
424_chicago chicago They depict images of clouds viewed from above, suspended in blue sky, with the land below nowhere to be seen; it is the view of clouds regarded at a downward and sideways angle, as from the window of an airplane.
425_chicago chicago These paintings depict a kind of "pseudo-horizon," formed not where land meets sky but where the suspended layer of clouds—a "pseudo-ground"—meets the empty upper sky.
426_chicago chicago (See the external link below for an image  's gigantic  aerial cloudscape entitled "Sky Above Clouds ", housed at the    ).
427_chicago chicago The flight flew from  to ,  uneventfully, but when it touched down at  , the flight had been delayed by  .
428_chicago chicago At 20:20 local time, the aircraft took off from .
429_chicago chicago Roughly   after takeoff, the crew reported a 'slight electrical problem' and would keep air traffic control 'advised'.
430_chicago chicago after takeoff,  the  officer reported to the captain that the left generator was 'totally dead' and that the right generator was producing voltage but wouldn't stay on the line.
431_chicago chicago Roughly   after takeoff, the crew shut off excess lights in the cabin, and meanwhile the voltage of the right generator kept on falling.
432_chicago chicago The  officer then mistkenly isolted the right genertor nd the rdio contct ws lost    lter.
433_chicago chicago At 20:52, the captain decided to descend to  feet, from there the aircraft slowly descended into a hilly pasture area.
434_chicago chicago The crew may have attempted a forced landing before the aircraft crashed, or a disoriented pilot mistook strip lighting at a mine for approach lights at  .
435_chicago chicago All  on board perished.
436_chicago chicago When confronted by Captain ,  briefly considers giving the attache containing the bomb until a male passenger yells out to a passenger exiting the lavatory that  has a bomb.
437_chicago chicago , holding the case close to him, runs into the lavatory at the rear of the aircraft and triggers the bomb.
438_chicago chicago The detonation blows a hole in the wall of the lavatory and  with it.
439_chicago chicago Chief Stewardess   ( ), who is having an affair with the married  and is pregnant with 's child, is injured in the explosion and subsequent rapid decompression.
440_chicago chicago With all airports east of  unusable due to bad weather, the plane returns to   for an emergency landing, even though another airliner stuck in snow has closed the primary runway.
441_chicago chicago (  , an actual airline of the time) chief mechanic at ,   ( ) is enlisted by  to lead the efforts to move the stuck aircraft, another  , even though it belongs to a different airline, TGA (  , a fictional airline and the parent company of the film's "Golden Argosy" jet)  , who is "taxi-qualified" on  s, is trying to move the stuck aircraft in time for 's damaged aircraft to land.
442_chicago chicago By exceeding the   flight manual's engine operating parameters,  frees the stuck jet, allowing  's primary runway to be reopened just in time to permit the crippled "Golden Argosy" to land.
443_chicago chicago would have  bouts in  while stationed in , , scoring a pair of knockouts.
444_chicago chicago He would make his post-war return in   and would win  more bouts by knockout over modest opposition.
445_chicago chicago would take on his  significant opponent in  , when he faced longtime middleweight contender   in .
446_chicago chicago He would knock  down in the  round, but was eventually knocked out himself in the  round.
447_chicago chicago After a 5th-round TKO over   in ,  would avenge his loss to  by winning a decision in  in  .
448_chicago chicago With the win, the    again earned a rating as a middleweight contender.
449_chicago chicago After another hand injury induced layoff  returned in   with a knockout win in  followed up by  more knockouts in  and  in  before returning to  to face  in a  fight on   .
450_chicago chicago opened fast, knocking  down, though he was up before a count could be administered.
451_chicago chicago In the  round,  pounded  to the body, dropping him  times, before he was finally counted out at 2:32 of the round.
452_chicago chicago In ,  would make his  and only appearance at Madison Square Garden, against former middleweight champion  .
453_chicago chicago easily outboxed a befuddled , who threw very few punches on his way to losing a lopsided decision.
454_chicago chicago After an   non-title knockout over    signed for his  bout ever outside of the state of  facing  refugee   in  on   .
455_chicago chicago though was no match for , who knocked him out in 1:21 of the  round.
456_chicago chicago In  ,  would take a non-title match in  against middleweight contender   at  .
457_chicago chicago would knock  down in the  round, howeverr  would break his hand in the  round, as  swept the last  rounds, to take a unanimous decision.
458_chicago chicago 's most notable performance came during a boxing match at   during  .
459_chicago chicago As the story (fact mixed with some fiction) goes, the fight ended with an extremely unpopular decision.
460_chicago chicago The capacity crowd became unruly and a riot on the floor broke out with folding chairs flying.
461_chicago chicago supposedly tried to calm the uproar with a religious song and then the Star-Spangled Banner.
462_chicago chicago When that didn't work,  opened up most of the 800-plus stops on the huge  organ, floored the volume pedal and laid his hands flat on the middle keyboards.
463_chicago chicago The resulting sound blew out many of the lights over the arena floor.
464_chicago chicago Stunned, the fans stopped fighting, picked up their hats and coats, and exited the building.
465_chicago chicago In  ,  tried his hand at boxing, losing in  rounds by technical knockout to    player   at the  .
466_chicago chicago Ironically, the  players became roommates when  joined the  in .
467_chicago chicago He returned to  along with   on    following the   winning the     .
468_chicago chicago The  challenged   for a shot at the title on   in , then attacked him after he accepted.
469_chicago chicago The  would ultimately lose the match and leave the company.
470_chicago chicago On   89  became famous for his role in the events during a  flight headed to   from  .
471_chicago chicago With  as captain, the airliner suffered damage to its number  (center) engine which caused all  of its hydraulic control systems to fail—an unprecedented problem that made the aircraft nearly impossible to fly or land.
472_chicago chicago Captain ,  officer Record, flight engineer , and  (who had been a passenger on the flight but came forward to offer his help) figured out how to gain some control of the plane.
473_chicago chicago They were eventually able to get the severely disabled airliner to the  ,  , where they crash-landed.
474_chicago chicago A portion of the fuselage ended up in an adjoining corn field.
475_chicago chicago Although there were  fatalities, a remarkable  people survived the crash
476_chicago chicago Danger is heavily involved with the running of  based female independent circuit independent professional wrestling promotion Shimmer Women Athletes.
477_chicago chicago She co-runs the promotion along with  , as well as being an active wrestler and color commentator for the DVDs.
478_chicago chicago Her notable feuds in Shimmer have been against  ,  , and  .
479_chicago chicago Flight  was en route from   to 's Bradley International Airport on   .
480_chicago chicago The flight departed O'Hare over   late due to bad weather and delayed connecting passengers.
481_chicago chicago En route the flight received an ACARS printout for the weather at .
482_chicago chicago It noted an altimeter setting (atmospheric pressure) of , adding that pressure was falling rapidly in the area.
483_chicago chicago Before making their final approach the pilots were further advised of a wind shear warning and severe thunderstorms for .
484_chicago chicago Winds were  out of ° at  gusting to .
485_chicago chicago The  Officer checked the     (ATIS) automated weather broadcast for  which reported an altimeter setting of .
486_chicago chicago For reasons unknown he entered this as  on the altimeter causing it to read approximately  high.
487_chicago chicago The Captain checked the weather radar before beginning the non-precision approach to runway .
488_chicago chicago It showed no convective cells on the aircraft's path and he turned it off.
489_chicago chicago As Flight  began its final approach the crew was advised that the control tower was closing temporarily due to severe weather buckling a window inside the cab.
490_chicago chicago The tower supervisor remained behind to assist the flight.
491_chicago chicago The Captain noticed the autopilot was having difficulty maintaining altitude and heading in the buffeting winds.
492_chicago chicago miles from the airport the aircraft encountered heavy rain and some turbulence.
493_chicago chicago The flight continued descending to , the minimum descent altitude (MDA) for the approach.
494_chicago chicago This was likely  due to the incorrect altimeter setting.
495_chicago chicago As the crew began to look for the airport the aircraft continued descending.
496_chicago chicago "  Flight " was a regularly scheduled passenger flight from    in , , to    .
497_chicago chicago On    the   DC-10-10 operating the flight crashed moments after takeoff from .
498_chicago chicago All  passengers and  crew on board were killed, along with  people on the ground.
499_chicago chicago Until the   attacks, it was the deadliest air disaster in the history of the  .
500_chicago chicago It remains the deadliest aviation accident to occur on  soil, as well as the  deadliest involving a DC-10, after   Flight .
501_chicago chicago When it occurred, it was also the  worst aviation disaster in history, and is  the  worst.
502_chicago chicago Having concluded that everything in the world is composed of air,  then used his theory to devise a scheme explaining the origins and nature of the earth as well as of the surrounding celestial bodies.
503_chicago chicago Air felted to create the flat disk of the earth, which he said was table-like and behaved like a leaf floating on air.
504_chicago chicago In keeping with the prevailing view of celestial bodies as balls of fire in the sky,  proposed that the earth let out an exhalation of air that rarefied, ignited and became the stars.
505_chicago chicago While the sun is similarly described as being aflame, it is not composed of rarefied air like the stars but rather of earth like the moon; its burning comes not from its composition but rather from its rapid motion.Kirk, ,  , and  .
506_chicago chicago “Anaximenes of Miletus.”
507_chicago chicago The Presocratic Philosophers.
508_chicago chicago :   , .
509_chicago chicago .
510_chicago chicago The moon and sun are likewise considered to be flat and floating on streams of air, and when the sun sets it does not pass under the earth but is merely obscured by higher parts of the earth as it circles around and becomes more distant; the motion of the sun and the other celestial bodies around the earth is likened by  to the way that a cap may be turned around the head.Fairbanks, .
511_chicago chicago "[http://people.cs.uchicago.edu/~simon/TEACH/28000/DavisUniversal.pdf
512_chicago chicago Anaximenes]".
513_chicago chicago The  Philosophers of .
514_chicago chicago , Trench,   , ltd., .
515_chicago chicago .
516_chicago chicago used his observations and reasoning to provide causes for other natural phenomena on the earth as well.
517_chicago chicago Earthquakes he asserted were the result either of lack of moisture, which causes the earth to break apart because of how parched it is, or of overabundance thereof, which also causes cracks in the earth because of the excess of water.
518_chicago chicago In either case the earth becomes weakened by its cracks and hills collapse, causing earthquakes.
519_chicago chicago Lightning is also caused by a violent separation, this time of clouds by winds to create a bright, fire-like flash.
520_chicago chicago Rainbows are formed when densely compressed air is touched by the rays of the sun.Fairbanks, .
521_chicago chicago "[http://people.cs.uchicago.edu/~simon/TEACH/28000/DavisUniversal.pdf
522_chicago chicago Anaximenes]".
523_chicago chicago The  Philosophers of .
524_chicago chicago , Trench,   , ltd., .
525_chicago chicago ;.
526_chicago chicago These examples further show how Anaximenes like the other  looked for the broader picture in nature, seeking unifying causes for diversely occurring events rather than treating each  on a case-by-case basis or attributing them to gods or a personified nature.
527_chicago chicago " " (born    in ) is a  professional boxer  living in  (IL ).
528_chicago chicago He is   youth light heavyweight  .
529_chicago chicago On   11 he scored a massive sixth-round knockout over   (  KOs) in the main event of Windy City Fight Night  at the  Pavilion in .
530_chicago chicago With the victory,  won the vacant   title in front of a large crowd of  fans including former heavyweight contender  .
531_chicago chicago started wrestling in  at  's gym in .
532_chicago chicago His  match was in  against  .
533_chicago chicago He sometimes wrestled as The Masked Miser and managed other wrestlers as the Miser.
534_chicago chicago He became a villainous character for the  time in .
535_chicago chicago In  ,   acted as his manager.
536_chicago chicago He won the  United States Heavyweight Championship "( version)" in .
537_chicago chicago fires, forest fires, and mine fires are generally started by lightning, but also by human negligence or arson.
538_chicago chicago They can burn thousands of square kilometers.
539_chicago chicago If a fire intensifies enough to produce its own winds and "weather", it will form into a firestorm.
540_chicago chicago A good example of a mine fire is the  near , .
541_chicago chicago Started in , it ruined the town and continues to burn .
542_chicago chicago Some of the biggest city-related fires are The Great  Fire, The  Fire (both of ) and the Great Fire of  in .
543_chicago chicago On    he had his most famous fight with  middleweight champion   in .
544_chicago chicago was far ahead on points going into the  round, but then  floored him  times and came close to stopping him, only to lose the decision.
545_chicago chicago boxed until , winning some fights and losing more often than he won.
546_chicago chicago He fought such highly regarded opponents as  () ,  ,  , and  (Kid) , but his greatest opportunity was in  .
547_chicago chicago In , the Capitol (CWC) promotion may have left the  when it was renamed the "   ".
548_chicago chicago WWE history lists a tournament final to crown the      as   over  on    in     but this tournament is fictitious.
549_chicago chicago had legitimately held the  world's title but lost that title to   in  earlier in  in a match—and rematch—ignored by the    and  promoters.
550_chicago chicago On  , the most productive storm affected portions of eastern  just southeast of  and portions of northern and central .
551_chicago chicago Shortly before 11:00 PM, an F4 tornado through a mobile home park and a subdivision north of  killing  and injuring  others across  .
552_chicago chicago The mobile home park was very heavily damaged with numerous structures being totally demolished.
553_chicago chicago A factory where  of the fatalities was also heavily damaged while the  other fatalities were inside the same home.
554_chicago chicago Anor tornado earlier in   caused extensive damage to  town of ,  and injuring  people.
555_chicago chicago Several other tornadoes were reported in and around the  tornado at the same time the parent storm tore through most of the city.
556_chicago chicago Across   near the   , over  tornadoes were confirmed along that area alone on   from roughly near   to west of , .
557_chicago chicago Activity ended on   with weaker tornadoes across ,  and  and minimal damage reported.
558_chicago chicago "Atmospheric conditions required to form tornadoes on a small scale."
559_chicago chicago The Storm Prediction Center in , , had issued only a forecast for general thunderstorms at the time of the tornado, with a "See Text" message for isolated severe weather.
560_chicago chicago Neither large-scale models nor local soundings by the  office could predict the ultimately small-scale event that caused  supercellular storms to spawn  tornadoes.
561_chicago chicago Prior to this event, all of the weather forecasts for the region originated in .
562_chicago chicago After the failure to provide an accurate forecast for this blizzard, forecasting responsibilities were expanded to include  coverage and more forecasting offices were created, yielding more accurate local forecasts.
563_chicago chicago In  ,  tried his hand at boxing, taking   to knockout an unknown fighter named  .
564_chicago chicago entered the arena wearing a robe with the words "Arthur The Great " printed on back.
565_chicago chicago It was reported on   that   player   signed a contract to meet Shires in the ring in .
566_chicago chicago On  , ' boxing career suffered a setback when he lost a bout to   football player  .
567_chicago chicago Seeing no benefit in fighting a defeated boxer,  backed out of his proposed bout with .
568_chicago chicago In  ,  was suspended by the     and the    after his boxing manager was alleged to have offered money to a   opponent to lose a fight on purpose.
569_chicago chicago Soon after that revelation,   admitted to the     that he too had lost his fight to  on purpose.
570_chicago chicago was eventually cleared from any wrongdoing by the boxing commissions after no evidence was found that he had fixed the fights.
571_chicago chicago became professional in  and fell short in his  shot at a major championship title, a  split-decision loss to   for the World Boxing Association Cruiserweight Title.
572_chicago chicago was knocked out in the  round in a rematch with  later that .
573_chicago chicago It was not until  that  got another shot at a title belt, a  bout with   for the International Boxing Federation Cruiserweight Title.
574_chicago chicago lost the belt in his  defense to cruiserweight phenom   in a seventh-round knockout.
575_chicago chicago has since become more of a journeyman than a contender, and has lost in bouts against   and  .
576_chicago chicago His  record is  with  KO's.
577_chicago chicago In ,  defeated unbeaten   (,  KO's), beating him clearly on points, on the Holyfield-Botha Undercard.
578_chicago chicago In  , , , lost a  round decision to   for the vacant   title in , , in perhaps his last major bout.
579_chicago chicago Over  trees in  have been cut down and destroyed to eradicate ALB from .
580_chicago chicago In  , over  infested trees resulted in the removal of over  trees;  's infestation of over  trees lead to the removal and destruction of almost  trees, Infested trees continue to be discovered.
581_chicago chicago trees have been removed in ,  because of the nearly  trees confirmed to be infested with the  longhorned beetle.
582_chicago chicago The    ice storm likely resulted in significant moving of infested downed limbs because of frantic homeowners clearing debris within the infestation following the devastating ice storm.
583_chicago chicago This has complicated the eradication effort.
584_chicago chicago A  exterminor has had a beetle in his collection since , and  APHIS PPQ has confirmed his finding, meaning the beetle has been in  for    , giving it a very long time to move about, especially since vehicles were often parked under infested trees, giving the beetles an opportunity to drop onto cars and be transported elsewhere.
585_chicago chicago On   in ,   at "Final Battle ", Aries teamed with Strong to defeat   and   for the     .
586_chicago chicago The  would then disband Generation Next on   .
587_chicago chicago In a  time ever match,  took on Pro Wrestling Noah star and former GHC Jr.Heavyweight champion  in  on  , but was defeated following 's "Go  Sleep".
588_chicago chicago From there, he joined Ring of Honor.
589_chicago chicago made his ROH main show debut at "ROH: Reborn Stage " in    on  4 004.
590_chicago chicago was unsuccessful, however, losing a  corner survival match also involving  ,  , and the winner,  .
591_chicago chicago was scheduled to return at the   show, Generation Next, to compete in a  night series which would showcase young, upcoming ROH talent.
592_chicago chicago , however, hand-picked Aries, along with   and  , as members of a new stable (also meant to promote young, upcoming ROH talent) who, instead of earning their spots, would simply take them.
593_chicago chicago The group took the name Generation Next as their own.
594_chicago chicago On     made her debut under her full name for  based all female wrestling promotion    defeating   in a match taped for "Volume " and losing to    in a match taped for "Volume 2".
595_chicago chicago On    Shimmer announced that  would be returning to the company on   for the tapings of Volumes  and .
596_chicago chicago On "Volume " she defeated Daizee Haze and on "Volume " she was defeated in the main event by Cheerleader .
597_chicago chicago returned to Shimmer on    defeating   in a match taped for "Volume ".
598_chicago chicago Later that  on "Volume " she was defeated by   in a –way match, which also included   .
599_chicago chicago defeated Shimmer Tag Team Champion   on "Volume " and then took part in an elimination tag team match on "Volume ", where she,  ,   and   defeated Daizee Haze,  ,    and  .
600_chicago chicago On     took part in the tapings of Volumes  and  during which she defeated   and   respectively in singles matches.
601_chicago chicago , after pinning     on "Volume " in a tag team match, where she teamed with   and  with   ,  was granted a shot at the  ship.
602_chicago chicago Later that , at the tapings of "Volume ",  was unsuccessful in her attempt to win the title.
603_chicago chicago suffered an ankle injury at the hands of  at  ,  and was out of action, but appeared at "ROH Survival of the Fittest " to attack  during his tag match with   against   and  .
604_chicago chicago then began stalking  at the next few shows.
605_chicago chicago On    embers from a hayshed near the   ignited nearby buildings sparking the Great Fire of .
606_chicago chicago The fire would destroy most of the downtown area, forever changing the face of the city, but as after the Great  Fire of ,  rose again and prospered.
607_chicago chicago Most of the  downtown is listed on the National Register of Historic Places as the Great Fire of  Historic District, while the portion that survived the fire is the 'West Market Square Historic District'.
608_chicago chicago The tear drop, also called a runner or a floater, is usually performed by undersized players (mainly point guards).
609_chicago chicago A player usually starts the layup procedure a good distance away from the basket.
610_chicago chicago The ball is generally released earlier and in a higher arc than the normal layup.
611_chicago chicago The ball should be away before the taller defender has the chance to block it.
612_chicago chicago The purpose of this shooting move is to make the defender miss blocking the ball as the ball is released from the hand  moment sor than expected.
613_chicago chicago It is so-named because the ball drops down from the high point of the arc like a falling tear drop.
614_chicago chicago of the   and   of the   during their primes, the former in the mid-to-late 90s and the latter in the early-to-mid 90s were considered to have the best tear drops in the game.
615_chicago chicago of the    frequently uses the tear drop with great success.
616_chicago chicago of the   has  of the most highly effective tear drop shots in the league despite being a power forward.
617_chicago chicago of the  ,    of  ,   of the   ,   of the   ,   of the  ,   from the  , and   from the   are  known for the tear drop move.