0_miami miami On  , a moderate tropical storm was found due west of , .
1_miami miami It continued northward while continuing to strengthen.
2_miami miami The center of circulation (the center of the storm) just missed  during the afternoon of  .
3_miami miami The storm became extratropical with winds of  mph ( km/h) after slightly weakening.
4_miami miami The storm caused no reports of damages or deaths in .
5_miami miami However, the hurricane weakened to a tropical storm again on   as it moved overland, and began to curve north-northwest, restrengthening to a major hurricane by   while it was west-southwest of .
6_miami miami The hurricane made landfall over  on the evening of  .
7_miami miami The hurricane passed over southern  near Pigeon Key and   on  .
8_miami miami The hurricane continued traveling north-northwest; however, it was forced to re-curve south-southwest, as a result of a high-pressure area.
9_miami miami The hurricane weakened to a tropical storm overland, eventually becoming a tropical depression.
10_miami miami The system meandred into the   , making a final landfall in   on  .
11_miami miami In , over  houses were destroyed, and the  and  churches were completely destroyed.
12_miami miami The jail in  was nearly completely dismantled, and the prisoners were evacuated.
13_miami miami In  , the Peninsula and  railcar sheds collapsed, with the roofs blown away.
14_miami miami A two-story brick saloon was destroyed during the hurricane.
15_miami miami The  telegraph office reported street flooding in the city, and that the telegraph office was flooded.
16_miami miami Damage in  amounted to $160,000.
17_miami miami In Key West, houses and trees were knocked down.
18_miami miami In  , the tide was described as the "highest in  ," where streets were flooded throughout the city.
19_miami miami At least  passengers on the steamers "St.
20_miami miami " and "Peerless" drowned during the storm near Elliott Key.
21_miami miami The steamers "Campbell" and the "Sara" were destroyed near the Isle of , and the "Elmora" sank.
22_miami miami Telegraph lines were also down south of .
23_miami miami sustained major damage from the hurricane, with  houses destroyed, and cable operators in , , and  were unable to reach telegraph services in the city.
24_miami miami The wall of a legation of the   was blown down.
25_miami miami 's sea baths were severely damaged.
26_miami miami 's streetcar service was temporarily disrupted by the storm.
27_miami miami Trees were blown down in the parks of .
28_miami miami people were killed in the city, while in ,  people were killed, with many others missing.
29_miami miami In , the location of the  '  Infantry, tents were destroyed and there was widespread damage.
30_miami miami However, nobody was killed or injured in the city.
31_miami miami In  , tobacco crops were ruined, and  tobacco barns in the Alquízar municipality were destroyed.
32_miami miami The sugar crop in Pinar del Río Province survived well during the hurricane.
33_miami miami In the   section of , the banana crops were completely destroyed.
34_miami miami Rivers topped their banks throughout the country.
35_miami miami The  and only tropical storm of the season originated in a tropical wave, as indicated by weather maps from  .
36_miami miami The  hurricane database initially listed the system as a tropical cyclone by  , although the  reanalysis concluded that a closed low pressure system had not yet developed.
37_miami miami Maps from   display a weak low north of The ; however, other observations place the new cyclone further south.
38_miami miami Decreases in air pressure occurred throughout the islands, providing "strong indications of a disturbance".
39_miami miami The system is officially estimated to have become a tropical depression at  UTC on  , approximately  east of , .
40_miami miami It became a tropical storm     and, that same evening, storm warnings were issued from the east coast of  to as far north as ,  .
41_miami miami Forecasters began to issue advisories to weather stations in the   when the storm was detected on  .
42_miami miami Forecasters then began to issue warnings to  and  on  .
43_miami miami Evacuation reports in both  and , however, are unavailable.
44_miami miami After the storm hit , forecasters predicted the storm might hit southern and western .
45_miami miami Between   and , forecasters began to issue tropical storm warnings to the  Keys and ,  ahead of the storm due to shipping interests.
46_miami miami By  , the hurricane trekked westward as forecast.
47_miami miami At 5 PM (EST), the tropical storm warnings were then changed to hurricane warnings which extended to the  .
48_miami miami On the , however, the hurricane did not recurve north and warnings for  and later the  Keys were dropped, as the storm instead continued west-northwest.
49_miami miami Because the  hurricane was large (exact size unknown), forecasters began to issue tropical storm warnings from coastal  to the  .
50_miami miami In addition, warnings were issued in , .
51_miami miami Since it was clear that the hurricane would make landfall in , the warnings were changed for the entire  coastline.
52_miami miami After the hurricane made landfall, officials continued to issue warnings until the storm dissipated on  .
53_miami miami It crossed  on  , weakened to a tropical storm, and paralleled the north coast of .
54_miami miami This fast moving storm turned northward, passing west of ,  on  .
55_miami miami It dissipated on  .
56_miami miami This large storm spread winds of  across , , , , and , .
57_miami miami A total of  cattle were driven off of   into  .
58_miami miami Heavy rains were common across southern , with numerous locations recording  to  of rainfall within  , which set daily rainfall records.
59_miami miami The death toll in  was officially , but may have been as high as .
60_miami miami The storm surge damaged a fishing pier in   and destroyed a casino in .
61_miami miami In , much of the city was flooded, and  people were killed in drowning incidents and flying debris.
62_miami miami In  , the hurricane destroyed the Mt.
63_miami miami , which was never rebuilt.
64_miami miami In addition, the hurricane virtually destroyed much of Passage Key, part of which was later rebuilt.
65_miami miami In , several buildings of the historic Ballast Point Pavilion were destroyed by the storm.
66_miami miami A steamship capsized between  and  and there were reports of damage to several other small boats offshore.
67_miami miami Agricultural damage from the hurricane was high, with citrus crop losses totaling to $1 million ( USD).
68_miami miami Damage to fertilizer and other materials also totaled to $1 million ( USD).
69_miami miami In all, the hurricane left  people dead ( unaccounted for) and left $ million dollars ( USD, $92.4 million ( USD).
70_miami miami The  tropical cyclone of the season formed  miles ( km) southeast of ,  on  .
71_miami miami It moved northwest and crossed the eastern  as a minimal tropical storm on  .
72_miami miami On  , it passed east of  ,   and re-entered the  .
73_miami miami On  , it quickly strengthened to the equivalent of a Category  hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
74_miami miami The cyclone slowed and turned west on  , and it continued to strengthen east of the northern .
75_miami miami The cyclone strengthened to a peak intensity of  mph ( km/h) north of   on  .
76_miami miami At the time, the storm was nearly stationary.
77_miami miami Several ships reported winds of hurricane force, rough seas, and atmospheric pressure readings to  mbar ( inHg) from   through  .
78_miami miami The cyclone turned sharply north, remaining east of the  .
79_miami miami On  , it quickly weakened, and it passed close to   on  .
80_miami miami It transitioned to an extratropical cyclone, and it passed over   on  .
81_miami miami The approach of the storm led to the issuance of storm warnings from   to ,  on  .
82_miami miami Hurricane warnings extended from ,   to  .
83_miami miami In advance of the storm, radio broadcasts also advised shipping interests to remain cautious north of  .
84_miami miami No damages occurred along the coast because of the recurving storm.
85_miami miami Peak wind gusts reached  mph ( km/h) at ,  , and  people drowned along the coast.
86_miami miami Damage was minimal, though   was flooded during the storm.
87_miami miami The White Star passenger liner  was battered by the storm on   while the ship was off the Nantucket Shoals.
88_miami miami The ship arrived in      with  injured after having what was reported as a "100-foot wave" crash over  liner.
89_miami miami Late on  , a minimal tropical storm formed in the western   east-northeast of northern .
90_miami miami At the time, it was  detected when atmospheric pressures decreased over the   on  .
91_miami miami It moved slowly west-northwest, and it gradually turned north on  .
92_miami miami Late on  , it steadily intensified, and it attained hurricane intensity on  .
93_miami miami On  , it strengthened to the equivalent of a major hurricane, and it struck the Pinar del Río Province of  with sustained winds of at least  mph (5 km/h).
94_miami miami A ship reported a minimum central pressure of  mbar ( inHg) near  , suggesting that the cyclone may have been stronger.
95_miami miami On  , the hurricane turned east-northeast in response to the southward movement of a ridge, and it quickly weakened.
96_miami miami Early on  , it struck   near ,  as a Category  hurricane, and it entered the   north of  with  mph (0 km/h) winds.
97_miami miami The cyclone steadily weakened as it moved across the western  , and it dissipated west-southwest of  on  .
98_miami miami Following reanalysis released in  , the storm was re-classified as a Category  with winds of 16 mph ( km/h) and a minimum pressure of  mbar (hPa).
99_miami miami This makes   the earliest Category  recorded in the   and ties it with   for the  most intense storm ever recorded in the .
100_miami miami prior to striking , the outer circulation began producing rainfall across the state.
101_miami miami Storm warnings were issued along the east and west coastlines northward to Cedar Key and .
102_miami miami Later, hurricane warnings were issued for much of the same area, and schools in the  area were closed as the storm was expected to move ashore.
103_miami miami The hurricane  affected  when it passed west of  , where sustained winds of  mph ( km/h), along with gusts to  mph ( km/h), were reported.
104_miami miami Little damage occurred in the region, limited to downed trees; this was due to advanced warning by the   , which advised ships to remain at port and for residents to secure property.
105_miami miami Later, the hurricane moved ashore in a sparsely populated region of southwestern .
106_miami miami Damage was reported in   and   and communications were temporarily cut, although no deaths were reported.
107_miami miami Heavy rainfall was reported along its path, and  location accumulated  inches ( mm) in a   period; this established a new -day rainfall record in the state.
108_miami miami A station in  recorded  inches ( mm), and wind gusts in the area approached hurricane force.
109_miami miami The combination of winds and rain damaged 5% of the local citrus and avocado crop.
110_miami miami The rainfall flooded streets, homes, and commercial buildings in the  area, and hundreds of people were left without telephone access.
111_miami miami No impact was reported in the .
112_miami miami After exiting  into the   , the hurricane weakened greatly.
113_miami miami On   it passed a short distance west of  , , and very early on   the hurricane moved over   with winds of  mph ( km/h).
114_miami miami The cyclone weakened further as it turned eastward through the state, deteriorating to tropical storm status as it passed near or over .
115_miami miami It accelerated east-northeastward, moving over the   in  .
116_miami miami Gradually weakening, the storm interacted with an approaching cold front; late on   it transitioned into an extratropical cyclone, and shortly thereafter it was absorbed by the front.
117_miami miami During its passage through , the storm produced torrential rain over coastal cities, peaking in  at .
118_miami miami The storm caused significant property and crop damage along the    .
119_miami miami Trees, power lines, and telegraph wires were knocked down by high winds along the  .
120_miami miami Communication throughout southern  was severed as miles of telegraph wires were downed during the evening of  .
121_miami miami Structures  considered safe from storms due to their location over  ft ( m) inland sustained significant damage, probably from storm surge.
122_miami miami Beaches along the  coast also sustained considerable damages from the storm.
123_miami miami people were killed near  in  separate incidents .
124_miami miami The  occurred when a house collapsed on  men, pinning them to the ground.
125_miami miami The  incident occurred after a woman ran outside her home and was struck by a tree limb.
126_miami miami At least  workmen were killed and  others injured after the bunkhouse they were sleeping in collapsed due to high winds.
127_miami miami The facility in which they were working in also sustained $200,000 in damage from a fire ignited by the cyclone.
128_miami miami Throughout , property loses were estimated at $3 million, with $1 million in  alone.
129_miami miami Damages to the citrus industry  were also significant, with total losses exceeding $600,000.
130_miami miami Losses in  amounted to $250,000 as up to  inundated the city for    .
131_miami miami The "  tornado" was a strong tornado that struck    on   .
132_miami miami It remains the deadliest tornado to affect the south  , and it is estimated to have been the most intense tornado to strike the  area.
133_miami miami The tornado caused  deaths and produced damage totals that were estimated near $200– ( USD).
134_miami miami people were also hospitalized because of injuries.
135_miami miami The tornado remains the only tornado to cause multiple fatalities in  .
136_miami miami It is estimated that the tornado may have produced "F3" damage based on photographs taken after the passage of the thunderstorm.
137_miami miami The exact path and strength of the tornado is uncertain, since it occurred prior to modern records which began in .
138_miami miami The  tornadoes to directly receive damage ratings on the  scale occurred in .
139_miami miami The  tornado was  reported in its formative stage over the  near , where several golfers noted a funnel cloud around 1:00 p.m. Hail was reported with the parent thunderstorm prior to the sighting of the funnel cloud.
140_miami miami The slow movement of the storm was accompanied by a large amount of people outside during the  afternoon, which led to a considerable amount of reports; several reports originated from passing motorists.
141_miami miami The vortex touched down around 1:15 p.m., and the tornado was described as a "very slender" funnel that frequently lifted from the ground for brief periods.
142_miami miami The debris swirling around the rotation was compared to smoke from "burning oil."
143_miami miami Later, the slow moving tornado passed over a dairy farm, killing  person and injuring  people.
144_miami miami Losses from the farm reached $100,000.
145_miami miami The tornado eventually intensified and destroyed numerous properties northwest and north of the city of , causing at least  deaths.
146_miami miami Some residents successfully attempted to flee in automobiles, though the cars were wrecked and some were thrown for distances.
147_miami miami The tornado became rain wrapped, weakened, and dissipated over the northern portion of  , though it destroyed some power poles along the eastern half of its damage path.
148_miami miami Hail associated with the storm was measured to  inches ( cm) in diameter, damaging automobiles and residences' roofs.
149_miami miami The damage path was less than  yards ( miles) in width, and the funnel was visible for   .
150_miami miami The thunderstorm also affected the communities of Ojus,  ,  , and  .
151_miami miami In total, the tornado demolished nearly  residences.
152_miami miami In , impacts were apparently minimal.
153_miami miami The cyclone produced sustained winds up to  and pressures as low as  in the .
154_miami miami In  , the cyclone apparently did not produce tropical storm-force winds, although thunderstorms produced  of rainfall at , , on  .
155_miami miami No severe effects occurred and the storm was not mentioned in the monthly notations of the local  Weather Bureau office in .
156_miami miami However, its presence and that of the   hurricane, then of Category  intensity and in the  , caused confusion in the local press.
157_miami miami On the morning   ,   before the  hurricane struck, the " " published a front-page story on the weak tropical storm in the    and included statements by the editors that it was not anticipated to strike ;  news articles on the hurricane, which was expected to deliver “destructive winds” to the area, were not published by other local newspapers until the afternoon, leaving  residents confused as to the extent  the danger.
158_miami miami Early on  , as Hurricanes  and  remained active in the  , a weak tropical depression formed in the western   about  east-southeast of the  , .
159_miami miami Without strengning substantially,  depression moved west-northwest for    and a half, passing north of    based upon wear reports, and n curved northward.
160_miami miami On  , the depression gradually curved to the northeast, and on the afternoon of   its center made landfall southeast of the city of , .
161_miami miami The cyclone then crossed the central region of , entering the  islands in the evening.
162_miami miami Shortly thereafter, by   on   the depression intensified into a weak tropical storm with maximum sustained winds of , the strongest in its entire life span.
163_miami miami The cyclone then turned north, passing about  west of the  capital  in the afternoon.
164_miami miami The weak storm n turned abruptly to  northwest, having been trapped by a building ridge, and    , while centered north of  , it assumed a gradual curve to  southwest.
165_miami miami Late that , it degenerated back into a tropical depression and dissipated over the Straits of  on  , as the   hurricane approached from just  to the east-southeast.
166_miami miami By   on  —just   after the formation of the preceding cyclone—a new tropical storm formed in the  about  east of the island of , though it probably originated earlier and was undetected; operationally, the storm was not tracked until  .
167_miami miami Steadily moving north of due west,  cyclone quickly became a hurricane   , and over    s, while bypassing  Greater Antilles to  north, it continued to intensify to a major hurricane, with maximum sustained winds of at least , yet few ships were near  eye with which to determine its path.
168_miami miami On  afternoon of  ,  cyclone peaked at , near  upper threshold of  modern- classification Category , and shortly reafter passed just  north of  island of  , striking  at peak intensity    .
169_miami miami Continuing over the   and   on  –, the cyclone, with winds of , then struck   near ,  south of  , shortly before   on  , with its large eye passing over the  metropolitan area.
170_miami miami Swiftly crossing southernmost , the potent hurricane weakened slightly before entering the    near   in the afternoon, and its path gradually curved northwest on  .
171_miami miami Late on  , its path slowed drastically and curved west, making landfall near  , , with winds of  and a measured pressure of  in the calm eye.
172_miami miami Quickly weakening thereafter, the cyclone paralleled the coasts of  and , dissipating      over .
173_miami miami Throughout the , reports of damage were relatively scarce despite the intensity with which the storm struck the region.
174_miami miami However, numerous structures were completely destroyed.
175_miami miami Within  of the hurricane striking , newspapers reported death tolls as high as , fearing catastrophic damage in the city.
176_miami miami This number gradually decreased as persons initially feared dead were found alive.
177_miami miami According to estimates in   ,  storm was responsible for  deaths in  Souastern  ,  of which took place in  and at least  at  , where a storm surge estimated as high as  overtopped portions of a levee on  .
178_miami miami Prior to , the  death toll was long listed as .
179_miami miami Many people in , transients who knew little of hurricanes, perished after examining damage during the passage of the eye, unaware that the back end of the storm was approaching.
180_miami miami Flimsy structures built to house workers during   land boom of   were completely leveled.
181_miami miami The hurricane partially contributed to the end of the land boom, which was in decline by  .
182_miami miami In terms of monetary losses, damage from the hurricane was estimated to be as high as $125 million ($  US$).
183_miami miami Up to  structures throughout southern  were destroyed and  damaged, leaving at least  people homeless.
184_miami miami A storm surge of  occurred south of  and winds on   were recorded at  before the anemometer blew away.
185_miami miami The lowest pressure was estimated at , the  most intense in a storm to strike the  .
186_miami miami The storm also produced significant damage, rainfall up to , and a storm surge up to  in the  .
187_miami miami The entire state of  lost 35% of its grapefruit and orange crops combined, including nearly 100% losses in the  area.
188_miami miami In a study of hurricane damage statistics conducted in , it was estimated that if a storm similar to that of the  hurricane were to occur in  it would result in over $140–  in damage.
189_miami miami In all, the storm caused at least  deaths along its path accounting for the revised toll in the  since .
190_miami miami after the   hurricane struck , the  tropical storm of the season formed in the east-central  about  southwest of  in the  on  .
191_miami miami Over    , it moved north of due east and rapidly strengned, becoming a minimal hurricane by   on   and later peaking at —equivalent to a moderately strong Category  hurricane on  Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale—on  morning of  4.
192_miami miami For    thereafter, the cyclone briefly curved to the northeast before turning sharply to the east early on  .
193_miami miami Late that , the cyclone swerved precipitously to the north, making landfall on the island of   near   at peak intensity, becoming only the  of  confirmed hurricanes to strike the  since records began in , the other being Hurricane Hannah in , another landfalling Category  hurricane that struck the same island.
194_miami miami Curving northwest and then south of due west, the cyclone weakened after striking   and reverted to a minimal hurricane late on  .
195_miami miami It gradually completed a counter-clockwise loop through the western , curving due south as a tropical storm, though its cool surface temperatures and enlarged size suggest it might have been a subtropical cyclone then.
196_miami miami Just afterward, late on  , it hit   near  with sustained winds near .
197_miami miami Over    , it moved generally south-souast and slowly weakened, curving suddenly east-souast beginning on  .
198_miami miami Turning south of due east, it dissipated by   on  .
199_miami miami The   hurricane formed on  .
200_miami miami Moving west-northwest while traversing the tropical , the storm later passed near   on  .
201_miami miami By   it was battering the , impacting the  and   with winds estimated at .
202_miami miami Then, in       , it made landfall just south   between   and   as a devastating Category  hurricane on  Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
203_miami miami The storm crossed the peninsula south   , entered the   , and made another landfall near Mobile,  as a Category  hurricane on    hooking westward along coastal  and , eventually dissipating on   after moving inland over .
204_miami miami In , winds on the ground were reported around  and the pressure measured at  — though all such data is suspect.
205_miami miami Most of the costl inhbitnts hd not evcuted, prtly becuse of short wrning ( hurricne wrning ws issued just    before lndfll) nd prtly becuse the "young" city's popultion knew little bout the dnger  mjor hurricne posed.
206_miami miami A  storm surge inundated the area, causing massive property damage and some fatalities.
207_miami miami As the eye of the hurricane crossed over   and downtown , many people believed the storm had passed.
208_miami miami Some tried to leave the barrier islands, only to be swept off the bridges by the rear eyewall.
209_miami miami "The lull lasted  , and during that time the streets of the city became crowded with people," wrote  , the local weather chief.
210_miami miami "As a result, many lives were lost during the  phase of the storm."
211_miami miami Coastal regions between Mobile and ,  also suffered heavy damage from wind, rain, and storm surge, but this paled beside the news of the destruction in .
212_miami miami According to the   there were  fatalities.
213_miami miami Other estimates vary, since there were a large number of people listed as "missing".
214_miami miami Between  and  people were left homeless, mostly in the  area.
215_miami miami The damage from the storm was immense; few buildings in  or   were left intact.
216_miami miami The toll for the storm was $100 million ($  USD).
217_miami miami It is estimated that if an identical storm hit in   , with modern development and prices,  storm would have caused $140–  in damage.
218_miami miami After the hurricane, the Great Depression started in  , slowing recovery.
219_miami miami The University of , located in  , had been founded in  and opened its doors for the  time just  after the hurricane passed.
220_miami miami The University's athletic teams were nicknamed the Hurricanes in memory of this catastrophe.
221_miami miami The school's mascot is , an ibis.
222_miami miami The ibis is a small white bird that can be seen around south  and especially on the UM campus.
223_miami miami An ibis was selected to represent the Hurricanes because of folklore in which it is typically the last bird to leave before a hurricane strikes and the  to return  it's gone.
224_miami miami The "  hurricane" (or "Great  Hurricane") was a Category  hurricane that devastated  in  .
225_miami miami The storm also caused significant damage in the  , the  state of , and the .
226_miami miami The storm's enormous regional economic impact helped end   land boom of   and pushed  region on an early start into  Great Depression.
227_miami miami Points further south along the  coast, such as , received only a brush from the storm, resulting in rains and some light wind damage.
228_miami miami Flooding was also experienced at points such as  .
229_miami miami Damage estimates in  exceeded $2.5 million.
230_miami miami In the aftermath of the hurricane in coastal , it became apparent that well-constructed buildings with shutters had suffered practically no damage from winds that caused serious structural problems to lesser buildings.
231_miami miami Buildings with well-constructed frames, and those made of steel, concrete, brick, or stone were largely immune to winds, and the use of shutters prevented damage to windows and the interior of the buildings.
232_miami miami Coming on the heels of the   hurricane where a similar pattern had been noticed,  lasting result of the  storm was improved building codes.
233_miami miami Thousands of people were left homeless in ; property damage was estimated at $25 million ($).
234_miami miami It is estimated if a similar storm were to strike as of   , it would cause $18.7 billion in damages.
235_miami miami The cycl remains  of   hurricanes to strike the southern mainland of  with a central pressure below  mbar ( inHg), the others being the   hurricane and   of .
236_miami miami Coastal damage in  near the point of landfall was catastrophic.
237_miami miami , well south of the point of landfall, escaped with very little damage;  and   suffered only slight damages.
238_miami miami In  , numerous power lines and telephone wires were downed.
239_miami miami Northward, from   to , buildings suffered serious damage from the heavy winds and  ft ( m) storm surge, which was heaviest in the vicinity of  ; total coastal damages were estimated as "several " dollars.
240_miami miami In   , more than  homes were destroyed, while the   's mortar was reportedly "squeezed ...like toothpaste" between the bricks during the storm, swaying the tower  off the base.
241_miami miami Because of well-issued hurricane warnings, residents were prepared for the storm, and the number of lives lost in the coastal   area was only .
242_miami miami Inland, the hurricane wreaked much more widespread destruction along the more heavily populated coast of  .
243_miami miami Residents had been warned to evacuate  low ground earlier in  , but after  hurricane did not arrive on schedule, many thought it had missed and returned to ir homes.
244_miami miami When the worst of the storm crossed the lake—with winds measured on the ground at around  mph ( km/h)—the south-blowing wind caused a storm surge to overflow the small dike that had been built at the south end of the lake.
245_miami miami The resulting flood covered an area of hundreds of square miles with water that in some places was over  ft ( m) deep.
246_miami miami Houses were floated off of their foundations and dashed to pieces against any obstacle they encountered.
247_miami miami Most survivors and bodies were washed out into the  where many of the bodies were never found.
248_miami miami As the rear eyewall passed over the area, the flood reversed itself, breaking the dikes along the northern coast of the lake and causing a similar but smaller flood.
249_miami miami Floodwaters persisted for  , greatly impeding attempts to clean up the devastation.
250_miami miami Burial services were quickly overwhelmed, and many of the bodies were placed into mass graves.
251_miami miami Around 75% of the fatalities were migrant farm workers, making identification of both dead and missing bodies very difficult; as a result of this, the count of the dead is not very accurate.
252_miami miami The   estimated the number of fatalities as , which was taken as the official count by the    for many  (and exactly equal to the official count for Hurricane Katrina).
253_miami miami Older sources usually list  as the hurricane's total count of fatalities, including the .
254_miami miami However, in  the  death count was revised as "at least" , making the  hurricane the second-deadliest natural disaster in   history behind the  Hurricane of .
255_miami miami A mass grave at the    east of   contains the bodies of  victims of the hurricane.
256_miami miami In , a reading of  mbar ( inHg) reading was recorded as the hurricane made lfall,  wind speeds between    mph ( to  km/h) were recorded in  .
257_miami miami The hurricane spawned  tornadoes that touched down in  , , and  other towns, with the   tornado being most destructive.
258_miami miami The tornado damaged a  story hotel, a railway office building and several cottages before dissipating   after its formation.
259_miami miami In southwestern , there was damage to orange and grapefruit crops.
260_miami miami people were killed after ignoring warnings and trying to ride out the storm.
261_miami miami While moving over Saint , the storm killed  people.
262_miami miami Heavy rain was reported throughout the  .
263_miami miami The hurricane caused the drowning of  person in the , and moderate winds produced severe structural damage to the buildings in the archipelago.
264_miami miami In , the    issued storm warnings between  to , while Governor   issued a mandatory evacuation for  residents in vulnerable areas around  .
265_miami miami Damage in  was minimal, limited to minor crops, roofs, and signs.
266_miami miami In southern , the hurricane produced moderate damage of $500,000 ( USD, $  USD), including disrupted telephone and telegraph lines.
267_miami miami The hurricane produced high tides along the coast of , covering parts of   , and heavy rains in northern  caused heavy damage.
268_miami miami In , people boarded up numerous buildings, and emergency workers assisted authorities in spreading the word about the impending storm; residents in vulnerable areas evacuated to shelters on higher ground.
269_miami miami The hurricane's powerful winds destroyed several houses in , and heavy rainfall overflowed numerous rivers in low-lying districts.
270_miami miami The winds damaged and disrupted telephone and telegraph lines and injured a few people in .
271_miami miami Despite government orders for police to kill any looters, large-scale looting occurred in  after the storm.
272_miami miami looters were shot to death, and a  was injured.
273_miami miami civilians were also wounded by snipers who fired to disperse thieves.
274_miami miami Residents in southeast  boarded up for the storm while the    issued storm warnings for portions of the coastline.
275_miami miami The hurricane produced strong winds and rain in the   and extreme southern , but damage was minimal.
276_miami miami In northwest , the hurricane spawned a tornado that damaged  houses and injured .
277_miami miami Damage in the  is unknown.
278_miami miami On  , a tropical storm developed off the northeast coast of .
279_miami miami It moved slowly northward and steadily intensified, becoming a hurricane on   just west of .
280_miami miami The hurricane turned to the north-northwest and hit the  province of La Habana with winds of  mph ( km/h) on  .The hurricane passed over  and turned to the northeast and strengthened, becoming a major hurricane as it moved south of , .
281_miami miami The hurricane reached a peak intensity of  mph ( km/h) while passing through the  on  .
282_miami miami The hurricane weakened as it accelerated to the northeast, and it became extratropical on   to the south of  .
283_miami miami It paralleled the   coast, turned to the east-southeast, and lost its tropical characteristics on   over the open north  .
284_miami miami On  , the  tropical cyclone watches and warnings for  were released around 4 p.m. ( UTC); storm warnings were issued in , while hurricane warnings encompassed the coast from north of  to .
285_miami miami Additionally, storm warnings extended from north of  to .
286_miami miami Storm warnings, which were issued around 10 p.m. ( UTC), were also disseminated from Key West to Cedar Key.
287_miami miami The threat of the storm prompted the     to issue southeast storm warnings for Key West, .
288_miami miami Light rainfall from the storm was reported in .
289_miami miami Before the storm made its final landfall, the   issued northeast storm warnings from  to  ,  on  .
290_miami miami That same , a hurricane warning was also issued for .
291_miami miami The hurricane ultimately struck a sparsely-populated area of northeastern , causing several deaths and heavy damage in the country.
292_miami miami High winds downed trees and power lines, and damaged the roofs of several houses.
293_miami miami Along the beach, high tides damaged coastal structures and flooded some cars.
294_miami miami The effects extended into , and  ,  , and   were flooded due to the storm surge.
295_miami miami High tides damaged  piers in  , and there was damage to buildings along the coast.
296_miami miami The storm damaged the cotton and fruit crops in south  from high winds and rainfall.
297_miami miami Rains from the storm ended an extended drought in the  area.
298_miami miami A rare   hurricane strike in the  area, this storm began as a tropical storm near  on  .
299_miami miami Moving westward, the storm strengthened to a  Category  hurricane on   while initially threatening the   coastline.
300_miami miami The system began to turn southwest on  , however, while continuing to strengthen to its peak of , while a ship recorded a minimal pressure of  mbar.
301_miami miami The hurricane continued moving slowly south-southwest while weakening slightly, eventually making landfall near  , , as a  minimal hurricane on   with a measured pressure of  mbar at landfall.
302_miami miami The system crossed the southern end  the  peninsula shortly thereafter, eventually entering the     as a minimal hurricane near the Dry Tortugas on  .
303_miami miami The hurricane then weakened into a tropical storm while beginning a slow clockwise loop in the eastern Gulf, eventually curving back east while weakening to a depression just west of   late on  .The system dissipated just offshore on  .
304_miami miami It had killed  people and caused upwards of $5.5 million in uninflated damage.
305_miami miami The hurricane's unusual approach toward  and late arrival earned it the nickname of the Yankee Hurricane.
306_miami miami The "  hurricane season" ran from      .
307_miami miami The  season featured below average activity, but it was eventful.
308_miami miami A Category  hurricane in the  killed an estimated 2,50 people in the Greater Antilles and  .
309_miami miami A Category  storm hit central  and grazed .
310_miami miami An extratropical hurricane hit .
311_miami miami The  tropical cyclone of the season struck the   in southern  as a Category  hurricane; it remains the strongest landfalling hurricane in the   (and anywhere in the  basin).
312_miami miami A rare  hurricane also affected the —  area.
313_miami miami The "   Hurricane" was the strongest tropical cycl of the   hurricane season, and  of the most intense hurricanes to make landfall in the   in recorded history.
314_miami miami The  tropical cyclone,  hurricane, and  major hurricane of  season,    Hurricane was   of  Category  hurricanes at landfall that    endured during    ( or  being 's Hurricane Camille and 's Hurricane Andrew).
315_miami miami After forming as a weak tropical storm east of the  on  , it slowly proceeded westward and became a hurricane on  .
316_miami miami approached, hurricane warnings went up over the Keys.
317_miami miami A train was dispatched from  to evacuate the    (WPA) construction workers, consisting almost entirely of Bonus Army veterans and their families, from the ramshackle camps they were living in Windley Key and Lower Matecumbe Key.
318_miami miami The train was almost entirely swept away before reaching the camps late on  .When it finally arrived in Upper Metecumbe Key only the engine survived the winds and wall of water that swept through the area.
319_miami miami The hurricane struck the      Mday  .The storm continued north along the   , weakening before its  landfall near  ,  on  .(If information is found on diameter please write.)
320_miami miami The     and other state and federal agencies organized evacuation and relief efforts.
321_miami miami Boats and airplanes carried injured survivors to .
322_miami miami The railroad was never rebuilt, but temporary bridges and ferry landings were under construction as soon as materials arrived.
323_miami miami Within   yers  rodwy (Overses Highwy) linked the Keys to the minlnd.
324_miami miami The storm caused wind and flood damage along the  panhandle and into .
325_miami miami The main transportation route linking the Keys to mainland  was  railroad line, the  Overseas Railroad portion of the    .
326_miami miami A 10-car evacuation train, sent from Homestead, was washed off the track by the storm surge and high winds on Upper Matecumbe Key.
327_miami miami Only the locomotive remained on the rails, and was barged back to    .
328_miami miami The    estimated  deaths from the hurricane.
329_miami miami Bodies were recovered as far away as  and   on the southwest tip of the  mainland.
330_miami miami The "Yankee Hurricane of " was a rare Category  hurricane that affected the  and   in .
331_miami miami It remains the only tropical cyclone to affect  from the northeast in .
332_miami miami The  tropical cyclone and  hurricane of the   hurricane season, it developed  miles ( km) east of .
333_miami miami It strengthened to a hurricane on  , initially posing a threat to the .
334_miami miami Subsequently, the cyclone turned southwest.
335_miami miami It attained its peak intensity on  , and it made landfall near   on  .The hurricane's unusual approach toward  and late arrival earned it the nickname of the Yankee Hurricane.
336_miami miami The cyclone produced winds of  mph ( km/h) on  .
337_miami miami The duration of hurricane force winds ranged from –  in the  , and  sponge fishing vessels were lost due to the hurricane.
338_miami miami The cyclone caused  deaths in the islands.
339_miami miami In  , winds unroofed several homes, and canals overflowed.
340_miami miami In  , the hurricane dismantled communication lines, and "telegraph companies relayed" messages via  and .
341_miami miami High waves flooded  .
342_miami miami feet ( m) of the   causeway was eroded, and police halted traffic between   and the mainland.
343_miami miami The death toll in  was low because of well executed warnings and advisories.
344_miami miami Winds shattered numerous plate glass windows in 's business district, while signs, roofing materials, and vegetation littered streets.
345_miami miami homes lost their roofs in  and , and the oceanfront boardwalk was destroyed.
346_miami miami Precipitation damaged equipment at the   , where many windows were broken.
347_miami miami Construction standards were improved in the aftermath of the  Okeechobee Hurricane, reducing damages in subsequent storms.
348_miami miami people were treated for injuries at local hospitals.
349_miami miami was flooded by  feet ( mm) of water.
350_miami miami The hurricane produced light rainfall in  that peaked at  inches ( mm).
351_miami miami deaths were reported in .
352_miami miami Total damages in  reached $5,500,000 in the –  area.
353_miami miami Initially, the cyclone moved westward.
354_miami miami On  , the storm strengthened to a Category  hurricane, and it attained peak winds of  mph (30 km/h).
355_miami miami The tropical cyclone temporarily threatened the .
356_miami miami On  , the hurricane reached its closest approach to  ; the center was located less than  miles (30 km/h) off the coast.
357_miami miami The cyclone's wind field remained narrow, and  recorded peak gusts of  mph ( km/h).
358_miami miami The cyclone turned south, under the influence of northerly winds from a high pressure system.
359_miami miami On  , a ship reported a minimum pressure of  mbar ( inHg) north of the  .
360_miami miami However, this value remains unofficial, pending reanalysis.
361_miami miami On  , the hurricane, with maximum sustained winds of  mph ( km/h), made landfall north of   near the  location of  , .
362_miami miami The hurricane's lowest central pressure in  was recorded at  mbar ( inHg) in , .
363_miami miami Shops and residences were "boarded up" in .
364_miami miami Precautionary hurricane signals were hoisted along the  east coast from  to , and the center was expected to make landfall between  and   .
365_miami miami Later, hurricane warnings were issued from   to .
366_miami miami men were evacuated from the   area in the upper  .
367_miami miami Workers in the   were transported to concentration points in  and Homestead.
368_miami miami Maritime interests in the    were also warned, though the cyclone's remnants remained f the west coast  .
369_miami miami On  , a tropical storm made landfall on the  coast of .
370_miami miami It moved northeastward across  , and entered the western   on  .
371_miami miami The storm quickly re-organized, and again developed into a tropical storm on  .
372_miami miami It moved north-northeastward, resulting in light winds as it paralleled the eastern coasts of  and the  .
373_miami miami After reaching the    with peak winds  , the storm turned to the northeast, then to the east.
374_miami miami On  , the tropical storm made landfall about  to the south of  , , and after crossing the state it passed over  before entering the  .
375_miami miami It weakened as it accelerated northeastward through the , and on   the system dissipated to the north of .
376_miami miami While crossing  , the storm produced heavy rainfall.
377_miami miami In southern , winds from the storm ranged from  to a peak of  in .
378_miami miami The srm produced heavy rainfall in southern , ranging from    inches (  30 mm).
379_miami miami The rainfall caused flooding of highways and lowlands, drowned several livestock, and some damage.
380_miami miami The storm caused  indirect deaths when a   airplane crashed in   while in search of small boats.
381_miami miami No deaths were reported in the region, although minor damage was inflicted on communication lines and homes and several injuries were reported.
382_miami miami Several communities lost electricity.
383_miami miami Some hospitals were left without power, forcing the delivery of  babies by candlelight.
384_miami miami The storm injured  people in the  area, including  firefighters who were injured "as they fought a blaze fanned by the high winds" of the hurricane.
385_miami miami As the hurricane tracked inland, it passed over the , producing winds of .
386_miami miami Storm surge in the region triggered foot-deep flooding of some streets in local towns.
387_miami miami Docks and fishing equipment suffered extensive damage in the region.
388_miami miami As the hurricane passed offshore, winds reached  near  .
389_miami miami The storm also grounded a fishing schooner from  off the coast of  , .
390_miami miami Although no  was injured, members of the schor crew were detained by immigration authorities.
391_miami miami On making landfall, the storm generated high winds at the Fowey Rocks Light, although they were below hurricane force.
392_miami miami A peak wind gust of  was reported at Dinner Key with sustained winds up to .
393_miami miami Unusually little rain fell in association with the storm;  of precipitation was reported in , while locations closer to the center of the cyclone received less than .
394_miami miami The light rainfall was evident throughout southeastern , except for the  , where thunderstorms enhanced the precipitation.
395_miami miami This aspect of the storm was considered highly unusual, as most tropical cyclones are characterized by heavy rainfall.
396_miami miami According to  study, the unusual precipitation patterns can be attributed to  of  possible conditions: "the air might have been too dry", or "the horizontal convergence of air might have been insufficient to produce a large enough transport of moisture upwards".
397_miami miami The intense winds blew salt water several miles inland; due to the lack of rainfall, the salt burned vegetation throughout the region.
398_miami miami The high winds brought down trees and utility poles and shattered some windows in  .
399_miami miami Local chapters of the    organized first-aid stations and shelters; transportation was provided to those who were unable to reach the shelters.
400_miami miami In advance of the storm,     suspended flights departing from and arriving at  and redirected them to , .
401_miami miami The    also prepared its bases in the   for the arrival of the storm by securing boats to piers and canceling all shore leaves, while the      moved its planes from   to a safer location inland.
402_miami miami The state of  stockpiled food for those affected by the storm, establishing depots in   , , and  , and the Governor of ,  , ordered state agencies to prepare for relief work.
403_miami miami A detachment of officers from the    was sent to  and patrolled along highways to provide gasoline to motorists evacuating the storm.
404_miami miami The state also opened all of the school buildings in   as emergency shelters.
405_miami miami During   before  storm's arrival in ,  Wear  issued  tropical cyclone-related advisories.
406_miami miami Extensive preparations that resulted in a low loss of life and property were attributed to the warnings.
407_miami miami In southern , residents boarded up homes and businesses, and sought shelter in large structures.
408_miami miami Hurricane parties took place in bars and hotel rooms, while some residents sat in hotel lobbies, listening to radio broadcasts.
409_miami miami In , stores sold out of various essentials—including bread and butter—as people prepared for the storm.
410_miami miami Evacuations were recommended from Homestead to  , and    planes dropped warnings to boats near the  coast.
411_miami miami The    also evacuated  of its workers from West Summerland Key to Key West.
412_miami miami On  , the  indications of a tropical system were observed  to the north of the  .
413_miami miami observations confirmed the presence of a circulation center and on   the storm tracked through the  and passed near .
414_miami miami At the time, the storm was found to be a compact, well-developed hurricane.
415_miami miami The hurricane's lowest recorded barometric pressure of  mb was reported on Cat Island.
416_miami miami The storm moved west-northwestward and attained peak winds of  on  ; that same , it made landfall  south of , .
417_miami miami Maintaining a small size, the hurricane moved through the , passing between   and  .
418_miami miami Along the southern shore of  , winds gusted to ; barometric pressure there fell to  mb.
419_miami miami warnings and advisories were issued by     during    period when  storm impacted  western  islands and  .
420_miami miami In , watches and warnings were broadcast via microphones at  to  intervals when the hurricane threatened the state.
421_miami miami The   reported  people were sheltered during the storm, which accounted for a small portion of those whom evacuated.
422_miami miami small vessels were secured in  , while operational  and  planes were transferred from  to safer airfields.
423_miami miami In , communications were severed on the Isles of , though  received ample warnings and was well prepared for the storm.
424_miami miami A hurricane was  detected on  , northeast of the Lesser Antilles.
425_miami miami It likely developed from a tropical wave   before.
426_miami miami It moved west-northwestward, and steadily intensified to a  major hurricane on the , northeast of the .
427_miami miami Around this time, the     designated this storm "The Great Atlantic " to emphasize its intensity and size, which appears to be the  time a name was designated by the office which evolved into the National  Center.
428_miami miami The hurricane turned northward and hit the   later that .
429_miami miami Although hurricane warnings were initially issued for the   and  through  , the cyclone passed north of the Lesser Antilles.
430_miami miami In advance of the storm, aircraft were evacuated from the    in , .
431_miami miami In total, hundreds of planes left vulnerable locations.
432_miami miami Residents were advised to heed advisories in , the , and northern .
433_miami miami On  , hurricane force winds were expected to affect areas from  ,  through the  , and hurricane warnings were accordingly released for this region.
434_miami miami Storm warnings also extended north to  and .
435_miami miami Military personnel sought shelter at  Race Track, while residents boarded homes and evacuated from coastal areas to public structures.
436_miami miami Boats were utilized to transport people from barrier islands, and small watercraft were secured along the  .
437_miami miami In south , peak gusts were estimated near  mph ( km/h) at the    in Homestead.
438_miami miami The strong winds destroyed  residences across the state, while  homes received damages.
439_miami miami The hurricane was the strongest tropical cyclone to strike   until Hurricane  in .
440_miami miami In , gusts reached  mph ( km/h), and damages were minimal compared to communities in southern  .
441_miami miami people were injured at the Army Air Base when a fire ignited during the storm, affecting  hangars and destroying  blimps,  planes, and  automobiles.
442_miami miami An additional fire also destroyed a furniture factory and a tile manufacturing plant in the northwestern portion of downtown .
443_miami miami More than    workers were activated in response to the cyclone.
444_miami miami In the  , hundreds of residences were damaged.
445_miami miami people died across the state.
446_miami miami Hurricane warnings were issued for coastal areas of , including the  Keys and Panhandle.
447_miami miami Storm advisories were also posted along the state's  coast, and portions of the  .
448_miami miami They were discontinued on  , although small craft warnings remained in place along the  .
449_miami miami canceled flights between  and , , and also to  and , .
450_miami miami Small navy vessels were secured, while larger ships rode out the storm at sea.
451_miami miami In the Key West neighborhood of  ,  residents evacuated their homes.
452_miami miami Emergency shelters in the area were opened, and local business slowed considerably with the exception of a few grocery stores selling emergency supplies.
453_miami miami Schools closed as windows were boarded up on houses and businesses.
454_miami miami Throughout its course, the hurricane was heavily observed and investigated, resulting in an abundance of information that provided a more comprehensive understanding of a tropical cyclone's vertical structure.
455_miami miami It was profiled in detail in a "Monthly Weather Review" article by   , titled "A Note on the Movement and Structure of the  Hurricane of  ".
456_miami miami This storm was named  by the   office in , which worked in conjunction with the military at that time.
457_miami miami This powerful hurricane hit near  , , on  .
458_miami miami It moved across the    as a weakened hurricane, but restrengthened before striking eastern  on   as a Category  hurricane.
459_miami miami The hurricane caused $110 million in damage ( dollars) and  casualties.
460_miami miami Although it was very powerful at its  landfall, its destruction was less severe than that of previous tropical cyclones in  .
461_miami miami An airport in south  recorded peak winds of  mph ( km/h).
462_miami miami The hurricane dropped  (– cm) inches of rain across central and southern part of the state, including in  where the storm produced  inches ( cm) in a   period and over  inches ( cm) in a   period.
463_miami miami The flooding rains left many neighborhoods in up to  feet of water due to a  wet , and left over    residents homeless.
464_miami miami The flooding also closed   from  to  , as well as a highway to  .
465_miami miami The hurricane spawned a tornado in both Coral Gables and ,  of which destroyed  warehouses.
466_miami miami In all, the hurricane caused $27.5 million dollars ( USD, $260 million 2005 USD) in damage in .
467_miami miami Following the passage of the hurricane,  mayor   declared a state of emergency and restricted access to the city.
468_miami miami In , many residents had to use boats and rafts to survey damage and look for survivors, due to the flooding.
469_miami miami Winds in  peaked at  mph ( km/h) in , where the storm caused $20 million dollars ( USD, $189 million 2005 USD) in damage.
470_miami miami Elsewhere in , the storm caused $500,000 ( USD, $4.7 million 2005 USD) in damage, mainly due to a tornado that touched down near .
471_miami miami Tides  feet above normal were reported from  to  .
472_miami miami In ,  , the high tides caused minor beach erosion and isolated street flooding, and  person was killed there by a falling tree.
473_miami miami In  , the high tides caused minor flooding.
474_miami miami In   , the origins of Hurricane  were detected north of  in the Intertropical Convergence Zone.
475_miami miami On   at  UTC, a minimal tropical storm was estimated to have formed with maximum sustained winds near ; thereafter it moved north by west.
476_miami miami By  , the storm accelerated and began strengthening steadily, reaching a peak intensity of  before striking land just before  UTC on   south of    in    , .
477_miami miami The center of the storm then began turning to the northeast before passing near  , which recorded wind gusts of up to .
478_miami miami after leaving northern , the storm rapidly became a hurricane, equivalent to Category  on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
479_miami miami Just after   on  , the hurricane struck  just north of  , and just before   it left the  metropolitan area near  —the same area that had been hit by the    hurricane   previous—with winds of .
480_miami miami Unusually, the hurricane strengthened over land as it passed over  , a phenomenon also observed in Tropical Storm Fay (), which struck the same region.
481_miami miami By  , the    issued hurricane warnings from the  metropolitan area to  .
482_miami miami Upon striking southernmost , the cyclone produced insignificant wind damage of $75,000 ( USD), largely due to its having struck an area hit by the more powerful    hurricane in .
483_miami miami Peak winds in  were estimated to have reached  around  , the area where the storm made landfall,  though these were not officially accepted as the maximum sustained winds.
484_miami miami At the  , wind instruments reported readings up to  before failing due to “friction from lack of oil”; higher winds were believed to have occurred thereafter.
485_miami miami Elsewhere in  , the      at   port reported sustained winds of ,  while the    in downtown  recorded peak winds of .
486_miami miami Between the  stations, each  apart, the difference in atmospheric pressure was  mb ( inHg), but the lowest pressure was not below 995. mb (29.9 inHg).
487_miami miami As the storm center passed just north of  , the city at   on   reported a pressure of  mb ( inHg) that was “still falling” at the time.
488_miami miami The eye of the storm by   pssed over the   , which reported clm winds for  —the  time in  th   in which the eye of  hurrice pssed over or ner the lighthouse, the other hving occurred on  .
489_miami miami Region-wide, the hurricane produced significant rainfall totals of  to —and, in the interior, locally as high as —causing severe flooding.
490_miami miami The highest measured rainfall total in   in   was  in northeastern  .
491_miami miami At a weather observation site in ,  of rain fell in as little as  .
492_miami miami In all, as much as  fell in just ¼  in the city; due to saturated ground preceding the arrival of the storm, much of the area flooded easily, leaving parts of the city submerged under  of water.
493_miami miami Similarly, “waist deep” depths were reported in nearby  , , rural western sections of  , and many other cities of the  metropolitan area.
494_miami miami In  , homes in the historic   district that housed    soldiers were flooded in up to  of water.
495_miami miami In the wake of the flooding in his city,   Mayor   blocked access from surrounding cities.
496_miami miami In the  area, the   and the   overflowed,  as did the    again in  , which had  done so during the  hurricane.
497_miami miami During the storm, up to  of rain in   were reported to have fallen on the city of  , and sections of   were under  of water.
498_miami miami On the  , floodwaters extended all the way across the state from the  area to as far west as   in  .
499_miami miami Due to the floods, septic tanks overflowed, leaving canal banks and patches of ground isolated by floodwaters; reportedly,  Route , locally called Federal Highway and built largely upon the  coastal ridge—the highest elevation in  —was flooded out between  and  .
500_miami miami Having been isolated by the floods, deer, rattlesnakes, and other wildlife, along with horses and cattle, sought shelter upon the remaining exposed ground, particularly levee banks.
501_miami miami In  , the flooding from the  and  hurricanes led to the creation in  of what is  the     , which under a  plan was entrusted with the task of preventing a recurrence of significant flooding by forming an improved flood-control system to modulate the water table and by providing suitable water levels with which to water crops, prevent saltwater intrusion, and support recreational opportunities as well as the growing   communities.
502_miami miami Large pumping systems were constructed, along with numerous new levees and canals, to mitigate  risk of large-scale flooding, yet population growth since    is believed to have reduced  extent of vacant lands needed for effective drainage, reby increasing  risk of damage during a flood similar to that of .
503_miami miami In his  book "Beyond the  Generation," former EDD Chief Engineer   voiced his concerns about large-scale development near the levees, which separate the  water conservation areas from the  metropolitan area.
504_miami miami wrote, “It is my opinion...that anytime that area gets a foot or more of rainfall overnight, the shades of ’s flood will be with them again.”
505_miami miami Following the phonetic alphabet from   , the    office in , , which then worked in conjunction with the military, named the storm "King," though such names were apparently informal and did not appear in public advisories until , when the   storm to be so designated was Hurricane Fox.
506_miami miami Hurricane  was  monitored as an area of low pressure over    on   .
507_miami miami Steadily tracking westward, the system was quickly classified as a depression before moving into the   near , , on  .Shortly thereafter, weather agencies lost track of the system over water due to a lack of ships in the region.
508_miami miami However, later analysis determined that the cyclone obtained tropical storm status, with maximum sustained winds of  mph ( km/h), during the afternoon of  .The storm quickly intensified as it tracked nearly due west, attaining winds of  mph ( km/h), equivalent to a Category  hurricane on the – Hurricane Scale, roughly 8  after being classified a tropical storm.
509_miami miami The hurricane maintained this intensity for   , taking a southwest turn on          , when  steamship "Arakaka" provided confirmation of its existence.
510_miami miami Beginning then, the cyclone began to intensify more rapidly as its forward speed increased; between   and , reconnaissance missions by the    began monitoring the hurricane.
511_miami miami At  UTC on  , a navy aircraft  penetrated the storm; in    , the storm strengthened, with another mission registering a barometric pressure of  mb ( inHg), a drop of  mb in  .
512_miami miami On  , another airplane at  UTC confirmed that the storm had deepened further to  mb ( inHg) and its eye shrunk to ;  by that time the hurricane had reached Category  intensity.
513_miami miami The same mission reported a double eyewall,  a feature replaced by a large eye by the time the storm hit the  and .
514_miami miami , the storm attained the minimum pressure,  mb ( inHg), recorded by aircraft reconnaissance during its life span, yet continued to intensify thereafter.
515_miami miami Early on  , as its movement slowed greatly and turned westward near the northern , it attained its peak intensity of 0 mph ( km/h).
516_miami miami Following the phonetic alphabet from   ,  the    office in , , which then worked in conjunction with the military, named the storm , though such names were apparently informal and did not appear in public advisories until , when the   storm to be so designated was Hurricane Fox.
517_miami miami While retaining its intensity, the storm, its northwesterly course having been blocked by a ridge of high pressure, crossed the northern portion of the  , where on Elbow Cay the   weather station simultaneously estimated winds of  mph ( km/h) and recorded  mb ( inHg)  as the center passed just to the north.
518_miami miami on  , it made landfall near  , , as a strong Category  hurricane with maximum sustained winds near  mph ( km/h)—only  or hurricanes, all Category  ( 193   hurricane, , and ), are estimated to have had higher maximum sustained winds upon striking   .
519_miami miami To this date, the hurricane remains the only major hurricane to have struck  , , at that strength, and the only  to pass directly over the county seat of  ,  though the   hurricane and Hurricane King caused significant damage in the county.
520_miami miami UTC, the cyclone produced peak gusts of  mph ( km/h) and sustained winds of  mph ( km/h) at    near  , ; the gust was the highest measured wind speed recorded in the state of  until , when   produced a gust of  at .
521_miami miami The station also reported a pressure of  mb ( inHg), the lowest during the passage of the storm over , though its accuracy is uncertain as  , in the eye to the south, reported higher pressures, while winds at the lighthouse remained at hurricane force.
522_miami miami The hurricane moved slowly inland near  mph ( km/h), and it diminished to a Category  hurricane over the .
523_miami miami Early on  , the cyclone entered the    near , producing wind gusts   mph ( km/h) at   Light near  .
524_miami miami On  , concerns about disastrous flooding were heightened by memories of the   hurricane on the south shore and of the   hurricane at  .
525_miami miami During the storm, tides peaked at  on the north shore of the lake  and  on the south shore at  and  , nearly overrunning the    that surrounded the lake.
526_miami miami However, due to revamped improvements in the dike, the storm caused only minor damage, and the dike prevented a repeat of the flooding of  and , in which over  people drowned.
527_miami miami Nevertheless, floodwaters in the  region resulted in significant losses to cattle, and hundreds of small block homes in the agricultural districts were blown off their foundations.
528_miami miami Much of the marshy country was waterlogged during and after the storm.
529_miami miami On the east coast of , many cities experienced significant flooding; tides of up to  affected  and   counties, washing out large portions of State Highway A1A between   and  , as well as between    and .
530_miami miami High tides carved a channel  deep and rendered a nearby road impassable while nearly reopening   , which had silted over and never re-emerged since the   hurricane.
531_miami miami At   many of the  resort hotels as well as homes and apartments were battered by waves.
532_miami miami There, a three-to-four-ft-deep (0.9-to-1-m) layer of sand covered many oceanfront grounds, and nearby neighborhoods on the  , like  , were flooded to a depth of several feet.
533_miami miami As it crossed   at about , the storm dropped a prodigious amount of rain over a broad area, peaking at  at   .
534_miami miami In , the city manager claimed  of city streets were flooded out, while in   half the homes were flooded.
535_miami miami The town of , having lost  "citrus" trees to floodwaters in preceding ,  suffered devastating losses to groves and vegetable beds.
536_miami miami On the evening of  , the    expected the storm to recurve, precipitating a possible landfall between  , , and , .
537_miami miami As a precautionary measure, small watercraft between , , and  ,  , were advised to remain in port.
538_miami miami Early on  , the forecast was revised, and hurricane warnings were issued for the  east coast from  to  , later to be expanded to .
539_miami miami As the hurricane approached Northern commercial flights were grounded, and  National Guard troops were readied for mobilization if “deemed necessary” by  Governor  .
540_miami miami persons in   moved into shelters established by the  , while up to  people evacuated the flood-prone   region.
541_miami miami In all, more than  people statewide moved into shelters established by the  .
542_miami miami Military aircraft were flown to safer locations, in some cases   or more in advance.
543_miami miami Hotels in the threatened area filled quickly due to fears of a disaster similar to the  Okeechobee hurricane; at  and Cocoa no vacant hotels were left for evacuees.
544_miami miami During the storm, the ,   ( ), and Venetian Causeways in  were closed to traffic.
545_miami miami At   alone,  people sheltered in  official shelters during the storm.
546_miami miami , the site of the strongest winds, received significant damage from the cyclone, and  fatalities occurred on the island.
547_miami miami In , the hurricane produced heavy rains and floods in the  region.
548_miami miami tornadoes also occurred in the state; however, no deaths were confirmed.
549_miami miami The impacts of Hurricane , occurring   prior to the storm, reduced the destruction from the  cyclone.
550_miami miami The cyclone also caused extensive destruction on .
551_miami miami A weak tropical storm, with winds of  mph ( km/h), formed  miles ( km) east-northeast of   a Dios, , on  .
552_miami miami The cyclone, moving northwest, strengned to a hurricane on   .
553_miami miami The system was noted as an organized tropical cyclone at 10:45 a.m.
554_miami miami ( UTC) on the same date.
555_miami miami On  , the hurricane intensified and attained winds of at least  mph (19 km/h).
556_miami miami Subsequently, the hurricane, reaching a peak intensity of  mph ( km/h), made landfall east of  in the    , .
557_miami miami The center passed west of , where winds were measured near  mph ( km/h).
558_miami miami Later, the hurricane made landfall near Marathon on the evening of the same date.
559_miami miami Maximum sustained winds were near  mph ( km/h), and Sombrero Key reported a pressure of  mbar ( inHg).
560_miami miami A lull, indicating the passage of the eye, persisted for   at Marathon and the   .
561_miami miami Maximum winds were estimated near  mph ( km/h) in the  .
562_miami miami The hurricane passed over  around 7 p.m. ( UTC); sustained winds of  mph ( km/h) were documented at the   's airport station, and the lowest pressure was  mbar ( inHg).
563_miami miami The duration of the center was   at the station; the lull lasted for a longer period at the   , but the pressure did not drop below  mbar ( inHg).
564_miami miami A total of  bulletins were released by the    office.
565_miami miami In ,  deaths were attributed to the tropical cyclone.
566_miami miami Homes and cattle were swept away by flash flooding.
567_miami miami injuries were reported, and damages reached $6,000,000 ( USD).
568_miami miami The hurricane, reminiscent of Hurricane Floyd in , produced minimal damage in the  .
569_miami miami In southern , the cyclone produced a storm surge of  feet ( m) on  .
570_miami miami Rainfall exceeded  inches (
571_miami miami mm) at the  airport station, and  streets were flooded by deep water.
572_miami miami Water resembled flooding streams in the streets of Homestead,  , , and sections of  .
573_miami miami In , the city mayor reported water depths of  feet ( m) in the streets.
574_miami miami The city had been plagued by floods in  .
575_miami miami A  bridge, located near the  , was damaged by a loose barge during the hurricane.
576_miami miami Planes were overturned and damaged by strong winds at the  .
577_miami miami The hurricane produced  tornadoes prior to landfall.
578_miami miami tornado, touching down around 4 p.m., demolished  homes south of  .
579_miami miami A total of  residences were damaged or destroyed.
580_miami miami tornado struck homes west of  .
581_miami miami building, containing  stories, lost its roof, while  homes incurred damage.
582_miami miami Barns were damaged or destroyed.
583_miami miami Losses reached $15,000 ( USD).
584_miami miami Another tornado destroyed  homes in the city of , where damages reached $100,000 ( USD).
585_miami miami The tornado flipped cars and inflicted extensive damage at the Royal Palm dairy farm.
586_miami miami All of the tornadoes attained the equivalence of F2 intensity on the modern  scale.
587_miami miami The hurricane caused no fatalities across the state, and the recent passage of Hurricane , which had resulted in pre-existing damage, mitigated the destruction from the  hurricane.
588_miami miami Total losses in  reached $5,500,000; more than one-half of the costs were attributed to property damage.
589_miami miami The lack of fatalities was unusual in a densely populated region.
590_miami miami The "  hurricane" was  of the strongest tropical cycls of the   hurricane season.
591_miami miami The hurricane, the  most intense storm of the season, produced winds of  mph ( km/h) in the ,  region.
592_miami miami The  tropical storm,  hurricane, and the  major hurricane of the season, it developed east-northeast of   a Dios, .
593_miami miami Subsequently, it intensified over the western  , attained winds of hurricane strength, and made landfall on western .
594_miami miami The cyclone, which was the equivalence of a Category  hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale, crossed the island and struck the   as a major hurricane.
595_miami miami The center passed over , departed near  , and crossed the   south of .
596_miami miami In , the hurricane produced hurricane force gusts from   to Saint Augustine.
597_miami miami The majority of the state experienced sustained winds of at least  mph ( km/h).
598_miami miami The storm produced the most severe conditions over the   region since , and peak gusts were measured from  ( km/h) to  mph ( km/h) near the lake.
599_miami miami The minimum central pressure near   was  mbar ( inHg) at Canal Point; pressures were below  mbar ( inHg) as far north as  , which is located in the   of the state.
600_miami miami On  , the northern  were advised to initiate hurricane precautions, and a hurricane warning was issued for the islands.
601_miami miami were encouraged to closely monitor the progress of the storm.
602_miami miami On  , hurricane warnings were released from  to  ; officials decided to cancel proposed evacuations of the   region, as the presence of the    was expected to prevent flooding.
603_miami miami On the southeast coast of , unofficial wind gusts reached  mph ( km/h) at   and  mph ( km/h) at , respectively.
604_miami miami reported sustained winds of  mph ( km/h) and peak gusts of  mph ( km/h).
605_miami miami Tides reached  feet ( in) above normal at   and , but the    remained intact, protecting the area from severe flooding.
606_miami miami Minimal erosion occurred in some locales.
607_miami miami , Jupiter, and  experienced the most severe damage from the storm in south ; hundreds of homes, apartment buildings, stores, and warehouse buildings lost roofs and windows.
608_miami miami Interior furnishings were blown through broken glass into the streets.
609_miami miami Severe damage was received by 40 percent of 's residences and commercial structures, and 90 percent required repairs.
610_miami miami A church, baseball park, and ice company was destroyed in the area's black neighborhoods.
611_miami miami Many flimsy buildings were destroyed in the neighborhoods.
612_miami miami In   , cars were overturned in the interior of a dealership as winds shattered windows.
613_miami miami Sand and debris covered the island of  .
614_miami miami Heavy rainfall resulted in flooding, and water entered many homes in   and  counties.
615_miami miami Snakes and mosquitoes infested many residences.
616_miami miami Precipitation totals of , , and  were measured at  , , and   , respectively.
617_miami miami received less damage, although trees and power lines were knocked down.
618_miami miami Winds reached  mph ( km/h) in the city.
619_miami miami Radio towers were toppled in   and  , and  portions of the Jensen causeway near 's Point were ripped away.
620_miami miami A hangar and beacon was destroyed at the local airport in  .
621_miami miami people were homeless in .
622_miami miami A water mark of  feet ( in) was recorded on the    near .
623_miami miami After reaching the southwestern  , King turned northward and later northwestward, striking downtown ,  on   with winds of  mph ( km/h).
624_miami miami It was the most severe hurricane to impact the city since the   hurricane.
625_miami miami Across , damage totaled $27.75 million ( USD, $  USD), of which $15 million ( USD, $  USD) was in the  metropolitan area.
626_miami miami A preliminary survey indicated there were  houses damaged in the region, with an additional  destroyed.
627_miami miami Along its path through the state, strong winds were observed around  , with a  mph ( km/h) gust in .
628_miami miami Overall, there were  deaths in the state.
629_miami miami Early on  , King weakened to tropical storm status over north-central , and later that  it dissipated over western .
630_miami miami There was  additional death in .
631_miami miami The tropical cyclones of the season produced a total of  fatalities and $38.5 million in property damage ( USD, $  USD).
632_miami miami The  officially named  hurricane was Hurricane Able, which formed on  , brushed the   coastline, and later moved across southeastern .
633_miami miami The strongest hurricane of the season, Hurricane Dog reached the equivalent of a Category  hurricane on the  scale, and caused extensive damage to the  .
634_miami miami major hurricanes affected : Easy produced the largest  rainfall total recorded in the  , while King struck downtown  and caused $27.75 million ( USD, $  USD) of damage.
635_miami miami The last storm of  , Hurricane Love, dissipated on   after striking    and causing minimal damage.
636_miami miami On  , a tropical depression formed in the western     after the end of the hurricane season.
637_miami miami It moved quickly north-northwestward and intensified into a tropical storm, followed by a northeast turn after brushing the  .
638_miami miami Early on  , the storm struck  ,  and quickly crossed the state.
639_miami miami The     office recorded a wind gust of  mph ( km/h) during its passage.
640_miami miami The winds damaged windows and power lines, catching residents and tourists off-guard.
641_miami miami The cyclone also dropped – inches (– mm) of precipitation along its path, causing crop damage in  .
642_miami miami Residents and tourists in southern  were unprepared for the unusual off-season storm.
643_miami miami Winds of up to  mph ( km/h) spread across the area, causing damage to windows and power lines.
644_miami miami The storm dropped – inches (– mm) of precipitation along its path; the combination of unseasonable rainfall and winds resulted in crop damage in  .
645_miami miami After the storm moved into the western , the     issued storm warnings for the   coastline from  to  ; the region was warned to prepare for strong winds.
646_miami miami The agency also issued a small craft advisory southward through ,  .
647_miami miami Offshore, the storm produced winds of up to  mph ( km/h), as well as waves up to  feet ( m) in height.
648_miami miami The combination of the winds and rough waves drove a freighter ashore along   in the Outer Banks, after the engine was damaged when water entered the fuel line.
649_miami miami The  person crew initially planned to evacuate, but they later decided to stay on the freighter as the    were deployed to assist.
650_miami miami The seas damaged a portion of the ship, but the entire crew was rescued without any injuries.
651_miami miami The storm later brushed  , bringing rain, fog, warmer temperatures, and gusty winds.
652_miami miami The combination resulted in downed power poles and tree limbs, leaving  houses without electricity.
653_miami miami The storm was described as a "freak", forming    after the end of the hurricane season.
654_miami miami The chief forecaster at    ,  , remarked that he was unsure how the cyclone developed.
655_miami miami It is  only tropical or subtropical storm on record during    , and was  earliest tropical cyclone to strike   .
656_miami miami Its structure initially was uncertain, and the storm was not included in the   hurricane season summary published by the    office.
657_miami miami Ultimately it was included in the tropical cyclone database.
658_miami miami Had it been operationally treated as a tropical cyclone, it would have been named Tropical Storm Able.
659_miami miami On     a disturbance was  observed in the western   declared to have been a tropical cyclone.
660_miami miami Winds were estimated at around  mph ( km/h), and it tracked rapidly northward, initially to the north-northwest.
661_miami miami After passing near  along the  , it turned northeastward and brushed the northwest coast of .
662_miami miami Early on   the storm approached Key West, and shortly thereafter moved ashore near  , .
663_miami miami It quickly crossed the state, passing near  before emerging into the western  .
664_miami miami The     office recorded a wind gust of  mph ( km/h), as well as sustained tropical storm force winds for   ; the station also recorded a barometric pressure of  mbar ( inHg).
665_miami miami The hurricane season officially began on  , when the     in ,  began   operations.
666_miami miami The agency, under the direction of   had access to  other weather stations across the  basin.
667_miami miami died during the season from a stroke while tracking Hurricane Hazel.
668_miami miami Additionally, a group of Hurricane Hunters planes were put on standby for the season, able to be flown out into storms and collect data.
669_miami miami During the season, there were  named storms, as well as an unnamed hurricane and a tropical depression.
670_miami miami The seson officilly ended on  , lthough n unnmed tropicl storm formed  dy lter.
671_miami miami In addition, Tropical Storm Alice developed on  , the latest a tropical cyclone has developed in the calendar .
672_miami miami The storm produced significant rainfall in a  region of .
673_miami miami The highest total in the state was  in .
674_miami miami There, the rains caused flash flooding that entered over  houses.
675_miami miami The flooding flooded  state highways, and also left portions of  inaccessible after reporting the heaviest rainfall in  .
676_miami miami Large tomato fields were inundated, resulting in some crop damage.
677_miami miami In portions of the state, the rains were beneficial due to  dry conditions.
678_miami miami The storm spawned a tornado in   that injured  person.
679_miami miami Damage throughout  was estimated at $3 million, mostly in the  area.
680_miami miami In addition,  surfers drowned during the storm.
681_miami miami Precipitation extended as far north as  , and coastal areas experienced high tides and gusty winds.
682_miami miami A low pressure area formed along a dissipating cold front to the north of  .
683_miami miami The system moved westward, developing some tropical characteristics by  .
684_miami miami , the storm moved over  before turning to the north.
685_miami miami On  , it crossed over southeastern  near .
686_miami miami The storm was never fully tropical, as its winds and precipitation extended far away from the center.
687_miami miami It produced sustained winds of  with gusts to .
688_miami miami After affecting , the storm crossed the western  and moved across the Outer Banks.
689_miami miami The storm became extratropical on   offshore , and    it was absorbed by anor extratropical storm.
690_miami miami The season officially began on  , the date that the Weather Bureau office in , , under the direction of  , began daily monitoring of all tropical disturbances and cyclones across the northern  .
691_miami miami The agency had access to the Hurricane Hunters, a fleet of aircraft that obtain data by flying into storms.
692_miami miami The Weather Bureau, in collaboration with other agencies, began a &ndash; project in  to obtain and analyze data on the structure of hurricanes.
693_miami miami The season officially ended on  .
694_miami miami The hurricane caused  deaths and considerable damage as an extratropical cyclone.
695_miami miami It also caused $1,656,000 ( USD) in damage in , most of which came from a single tornado in .
696_miami miami In its early stages, the storm dropped moderately heavy rainfall in , which caused damage to crops.
697_miami miami A tornado near  and high tides on the west coast of the state also resulted in damage.
698_miami miami Overall, losses in  were slightly more than $1.5 million ( USD).
699_miami miami After becoming extratropical, the storm caused significant effects in  .
700_miami miami Rough seas damaged or destroyed numerous fishing boats and caused  fatalities.
701_miami miami High winds also disrupted communications in some areas.
702_miami miami By  ,  made landfall near   border and dissipated over  on   .
703_miami miami On  ,  of rain fell in only  .
704_miami miami No impact was reported in .
705_miami miami The storm dropped rainfall across , though the heavier amounts were mainly on the  coast.
706_miami miami Precipitation peaked at  near Fellsmere, while rainfall reached  in some areas of the  metropolitan area.
707_miami miami Although  was a depression at landfall, sustained winds between  were recorded in  , while a gust as high as  was reported in  .
708_miami miami In , a pressure gradient combined with  to produce tides of  about normal.
709_miami miami A tropical wave strengthened into a depression on  , and was named Tropical Storm  soon after.
710_miami miami moved quickly to the west and strengthened into a Category  storm by the time it churned through the Lesser Antilles.
711_miami miami The hurricane remained a Category  as it passed into the , and moved just to the south of  on  2, and then veered more to the north which brought a landfall on the tip of .
712_miami miami The storm then turned to the north and weakened to a Category  before it struck , but remained a hurricane the whole time over land.
713_miami miami then brushed against  and the east coast of  as it weakened from a Category  hurricane to a tropical storm.
714_miami miami killed a total of  people and caused serious property damage as it travelled through the   and into , totaling $198 million ( USD, $  USD) in damage.
715_miami miami Alma made landfall near  ,  on   as a tropical depression, and became extratropical    over  .
716_miami miami Although  passed just offshore, impact in  , if any, is unknown.
717_miami miami In the  , winds of  mph ( km/h) was reported.
718_miami miami Impact was severest in , where flash flooding caused  fatalities, destroyed several homes, forced the evacuation of  people in  , and resulted in a shutdown of  sugar mills.
719_miami miami The storm brought light rainfall to , peaking at  near .
720_miami miami Hazardous thunderstorms caused  death in  and damaged some roofs and building in  .
721_miami miami In other states, impact was mostly in the form of rain, though a tornado near ,   destroyed a roof.
722_miami miami In addition to the  named storms of  and  notable tropical depressions, there were several minor systems that were classified as depressions by the National Hurricane Center.
723_miami miami The   systems of   were not classified as fully tropical, rar y were associated with  remnants of decaying cold fronts.
724_miami miami On  , the  of these depressions formed northeast of the  and tracked in a curved motion before dissipating over open water on  .
725_miami miami , on  , another depression formed in the same general region; however, this system was shorter lived and dissipated    without significant movement.
726_miami miami On  , another partially tropical system formed over open waters.
727_miami miami The cyclone tracked northeast and dissipated late on   east-southeast of the Azores.
728_miami miami On  , a brief depression formed near  but dissipated   .
729_miami miami Roughly   into  officil hurricne seson,   depression of  yer formed just offshore soust Florid, ner Mimi.
730_miami miami The system tracked northwest across the peninsula and briefly entered the Gulf of  on    making landfall along the  .
731_miami miami The depression eventually dissipate on   over  .
732_miami miami A broad area of low pressure organized into a tropical depression off the coast of  on  .
733_miami miami After drifting to the southeast, it turned to the north-northwest and organized into a tropical storm on  .
734_miami miami Subsequent to crossing western ,  accelerated to the northeast, and attained hurricane status late on  .
735_miami miami It passed through the  Keys before entraining cooler, drier air from a stationary frontal boundary.
736_miami miami Its convection became very disorganized, and  weakened back to a tropical storm early on   to the southeast of ; the storm crossed the , and becoming an extratropical cyclone before being absorbed by the frontal boundary on  .
737_miami miami In the ,  brought high tides, hurricane force winds, and tornadoes, which caused significant damage in the archipelago, especially on Cat Cays.
738_miami miami At least  houses were destroyed and left damage to the transport, communications, water, sanitation, agriculture, and fishing sectors.
739_miami miami Overall,  caused  fatalities and $250 million ( USD) in damage in the .
740_miami miami Throughout the southern portions of ,  brought very high winds; a wind gust of  mph ( km/h) was reported at a house in , .
741_miami miami High winds caused catastrophic damage in , especially in  , where approximately  houses were either severely damaged or destroyed.
742_miami miami In the ,  acres ( km2) of trees were knocked down and about   fish were killed.
743_miami miami Rainfall in  was moderate, peaking at  in western  .
744_miami miami Significant damage to oil platforms was reported, with  company losing  platforms, had  structures damaged, and  drilling wells blown off course.
745_miami miami In ,  produced hurricane force winds along its path, which left about  without electricity, downed 80% of trees in the   , and caused significant agricultural damage.
746_miami miami An F3 tornado in   the   damaged or destroyed  structures.
747_miami miami fatalities were reported in ,  of which were drowning victims offshore.
748_miami miami Elsewhere, the storm spawned at least  tornadoes, especially in , , and .
749_miami miami Overall,  caused  fatalities and $26 billion ( USD) in damage, making it the  costliest hurricane in  history, behind only Hurricane Katrina in  and Hurricane Ike in .
750_miami miami Following 's closest approach, the    station in  recorded a minimum barometric pressure of, as well as  surface winds as the center of  passed a little to the west.
751_miami miami The     in  reported a minimum central pressure of .
752_miami miami Only  other reports of tropical storm force winds were reported on the  mainland, besides , were reported in associated with .
753_miami miami In , sustained winds of  were observed at  UTC.
754_miami miami Shortly thereafter, near  UTC, sustained winds of  with gusts up to  were reported in the same location.
755_miami miami Several ships reported rough weather during 's existence, with the "Pacific Sandpiper" reporting a maximum wave height of .
756_miami miami In , it is reported that waves in excess of  moved through the city.
757_miami miami In several states, heavy rainfall between  to  inches was recorded.
758_miami miami However, in  , the highest rainfall total was observed, at .
759_miami miami According to "The  " and the "West Hawaii ",  is blamed for the death of  deaths, which includes both direct and indirect.
760_miami miami Most of the fatalities came from heavy rainfall associated with the system.
761_miami miami A state of emergency was declared in at least  states in  following 's passage, and the    said that  people were evacuated in  states.
762_miami miami Additionally, at least  people were left homeless.
763_miami miami Finally, rough seas near   caused all  tons of sulfuric acid to leak aboard the  beached cargo tanker, "Betula".
764_miami miami While hurricanes are often seen as the biggest weather threat to , tornadoes are relatively common in  , although the vast majority of the tornadoes that strike -Dade  are small, relatively weak F0 or F1 tornadoes.
765_miami miami Most of these tornadoes form as either waterspouts off  , as part of the frequent afternoon thunderstorms, or spawned from a tropical storm or hurricane.
766_miami miami Tornadoes can and have occurred in every month of the year in  .
767_miami miami The tornado formed in the afternoon (around 2:00 PM), initially touching down in the Silver Bluff Estates area.
768_miami miami It then swept through , bypassing the city's skyscrapers.
769_miami miami It then crossed the MacArthur  and the  , towards  , sideswiping a cruise ship.
770_miami miami The tornado lifted from the water halfway through   and touched down briefly again in  , flipping over a car and then dissipating.
771_miami miami The Storm Prediction Center in  had predicted tornadoes in the area and warned that there might be more to come.
0_philadelphia philadelphia The "   earthquake" occurred on    in the  state of  .
1_philadelphia philadelphia Measuring  on the  scale, it stands as the most powerful earthquake to occur in the state.
2_philadelphia philadelphia Shaking was felt from   to .
3_philadelphia philadelphia A brief foreshock occurred at 02:00 UTC on   and an aftershock    were reported only in   and in , .
4_philadelphia philadelphia The earthquake caused intensity VII damage on the Mercalli scale.
5_philadelphia philadelphia The "  train accident" occurred on   , in ,  , , when an early experimental railway locomotive, 's  , suffered a boiler explosion.
6_philadelphia philadelphia This engine, also known as the Steam Horse, ran on  wheels but was pushed by mechanical feet.
7_philadelphia philadelphia This was both the  recorded boiler explosion and the  railway accident causing major loss of life, as  people were killed [some sources state ].
8_philadelphia philadelphia The accident is not included in many texts because it was on an industrial waggonway or plateway, rather than a public railway.
9_philadelphia philadelphia Nevertheless, it predated  's death at   by  , and the death toll was not exceeded by any railway accident until  worldwide (see  train crash), and  in the  ( ).
10_philadelphia philadelphia It also killed more people than any other railway boiler explosion of all time.
11_philadelphia philadelphia Most boiler explosions caused severe mechanical damage but often only the locomotive crew suffered physically; however, 's locomotive was surrounded at the time by a crowd of curious sightseers, who formed the majority of the victims.
12_philadelphia philadelphia The  high-pressure steam locomotive, 's Penydarren enge, had only appeared     , and engeerg understandg of the forces and safety risks volved was still primitive.
13_philadelphia philadelphia Upon making landfall on Cape ,  , the cyclone produced a  foot (1. m) storm surge on the   side of the city.
14_philadelphia philadelphia Lasting for  , the hurricane force winds were described as "[blowing] with great violence", causing widespread devastation across the region.
15_philadelphia philadelphia In   , its passage caused damage to the port.
16_philadelphia philadelphia Strong winds reached as far inland as , , where winds of over  mph ( km/h) downed trees and chimneys; in the city, precipitation accrued to  inches ( mm).
17_philadelphia philadelphia Further to the north, the hurricane destroyed a windmill at  ,  .
18_philadelphia philadelphia Though the hurricane struck at low tide, it produced a storm surge of over  feet ( m) along several portions of the   coastline, causing significant overwash.
19_philadelphia philadelphia A "refinery owned by    in " located at   on the   in   caught fire on   .
20_philadelphia philadelphia This incident resulted in the death of  firefighters of the   , injuries to  other firefighters, and the loss of  fire apparatus.
21_philadelphia philadelphia As the fire swept rapidly eastward along  Street, ’s foam pumpers, Engines  and , and the Gulf Refinery foam pumper were rapidly destroyed in the fire’s advance.
22_philadelphia philadelphia At  Street, where Engines  and  had been assigned to improve drainage, their pieces were also destroyed in the fire’s path, although their pump operators were able to escape.
23_philadelphia philadelphia Upon reaching  Street, the fire traveled  city blocks north along  Street, threatening  additional storage tanks and the  Penrose Avenue Bridge.
24_philadelphia philadelphia It was  4:41 p.m. and a firestorm was  developing as the fire quickly spread eastward along Avenue “Y” towards  Street.
25_philadelphia philadelphia Viewing  unfolding horror before him, Commissioner  ordered  more alarms,  additional rescue squads, and  recall of all companies which had  been released from  firegrounds throughout  .
26_philadelphia philadelphia On these orders, the fire alarm room transmitted the    alarms.
27_philadelphia philadelphia As the fire had been placed under control    , firefighters in stations across the city knew that the unthinkable had occurred as these additional alarms were struck.
28_philadelphia philadelphia At 4:46 p.m., Commissioner  ordered the  alarm and notification of  Managing Director   as a major disaster was  unfolding at the Gulf Refinery.
29_philadelphia philadelphia At 6:04 a.m., upon receiving the report of fire from the Gulf Refinery, the    transmitted the refinery’s fire alarm box: Box ,  and  Avenues.
30_philadelphia philadelphia Upon leaving their station, Engine  (the assigned first-due engine company) could see fire and smoke conditions at a distance, and before arriving at the refinery, Engine  ordered the  alarm at 6:09 a.m.
31_philadelphia philadelphia It occurred on    at the    in   where members of the   a   military veterans association had gathered for the  Bicentennial.
32_philadelphia philadelphia Within   of the event’s start, veterans began falling ill with a then-unidentified pneumonia.
33_philadelphia philadelphia They were tachypneic and complained of chest pain.
34_philadelphia philadelphia As many as  people were given medical treatment, and  deaths occurred.
35_philadelphia philadelphia At the time, the  was debating the risk of a possible swine flu epidemic, and this incident prompted the passage of a national swine flu vaccination program.
36_philadelphia philadelphia That cause was ruled out, and research continued for , with various theories discussed in scientific and mass media that ranged from toxic chemicals to terrorism (domestic or foreign) aimed at the veterans.
37_philadelphia philadelphia Other memorials to the victims of the  barracks bombing have been erected in various locations within the  , including  at 's Landing in , sylvania, and  in .
38_philadelphia philadelphia Additionally, a  cedar has been planted in  National Cemetery near the graves of some of the victims of the attack, in their memory.
39_philadelphia philadelphia A plaque in the ground in front of the tree, dedicated in a ceremony on the  anniversary of the attack, reads: "Let peace take root: This cedar of  tree grows in living memory of the  killed in the  terrorist attack and all victims of terrorism around the world."
40_philadelphia philadelphia The National Museum of the  , in , , unveiled an exhibit in  in memory of the attack and its victims.
41_philadelphia philadelphia The "  earthquake" registering a moment magnitude of  occurred on    at 2:56:50 pm local time and lasted approximately   in  .
42_philadelphia philadelphia The tremor was epicentered approximately  km to the northwest of the city center, in a sparsely populated area between the working-class town of  and the    .
43_philadelphia philadelphia This proximity to the  Metropolitan Area resulted in widespread structural damage, mainly to the nearby towns of  , Acharnes,  and  as well as to the northern  suburbs of , ,  and  .
44_philadelphia philadelphia More than  buildings (including  major factories) across those areas collapsed trapping scores of victims under their rubble while dozens more were severely damaged.
45_philadelphia philadelphia Overll,  people lost their lives nd more thn  were treted for injuries in wht eventully becme 's dedliest nturl disster in lmost hlf  .
46_philadelphia philadelphia This event took  seismologists by surprise as it came from a  unknown fault, originating in an area that was for a long time considered of a particularly low seismicity.
47_philadelphia philadelphia The highest recorded peak ground acceleration was g, at  km from the epicentre, with attenuation predicting g acceleration at the centre.
48_philadelphia philadelphia Although many heat related deaths go unreported, by  , the   reported that the soaring heat was blamed for  deaths from   to the  area.
49_philadelphia philadelphia Reports by early morning   raised the death toll to at least  in  states.
50_philadelphia philadelphia As of    the  Jersey Government has confirmed  cases of swine flu and  probable cases most of them within a range of   of   or .
51_philadelphia philadelphia More swine flu cases are being reported daily, which has caused a widespread in the state.
52_philadelphia philadelphia Counties  confirmed with swine flu:  (),  (),  (),  (),   (),  (),  (),  (),  (), (),  (),  (),  (),  (),  (),  (),  (),  (7),  (1), Union (),  (), which indicates that   counties have confirmed cases of swine flu.
53_philadelphia philadelphia ":" Trembling was felt in buildings in  and  and across the state.
54_philadelphia philadelphia In   , a window shattered on a lower floor at     building, and  company sent its  employees home for  .
55_philadelphia philadelphia Other office buildings in    were also evacuated following the earthquake.
56_philadelphia philadelphia Workers at the   in  evacuated the building.
57_philadelphia philadelphia However, the    nuclear plant south of  continued to operate during the earthquake.
58_philadelphia philadelphia The Bucks County Courthouse in  was evacuated following the earthquake.
59_philadelphia philadelphia In ,    trains were restricted to a speed of  while tracks were inspected for damage, and  Speedline trains were briefly suspended, with no damage reported.
60_philadelphia philadelphia The     inspected bridges across the state for damage.
61_philadelphia philadelphia The     reported no damage to its  bridges across the  .
62_philadelphia philadelphia Historical records list up to  towns and cities that were destroyed or damaged by the earthquake: , , Temnos, , Aegae, Apollonis, Mostene, , Hierapolis, , Cyme, Tmolus, ,  and .
63_philadelphia philadelphia Of these, ,  and  are not mentioned by .
64_philadelphia philadelphia The record of damage at both  and  may refer instead to an earthquake in AD .
65_philadelphia philadelphia In  the Heroon of   was remodelled after the earthquake.
66_philadelphia philadelphia After the police got inside the schoolhouse, all of the wounded girls were taken to hospitals.
67_philadelphia philadelphia had died at  school house,  was pronounced dead on arrival at   , and  sisters survived until       when y were taken f  life support.
68_philadelphia philadelphia All of the victims that survived the immediate attack were brought to   , stabilized, and then transferred to hospitals with pediatric trauma care.
69_philadelphia philadelphia of the children were admitted to     ,  to Children's  of  and  to   in , , reported a state police spokesman.
70_philadelphia philadelphia of the surviving children was initially transported to The Reading Hospital and Medical Center via helicopter, and then transported to the Children's Hospital of  after being stabilized.
71_philadelphia philadelphia Several factions within the  family began conspiring to betray the aging .
72_philadelphia philadelphia On    the  year-old  was killed by a shotgun blast in the back of the head as he sat in his car.
73_philadelphia philadelphia It is believed that the killing was ordered by   (aka Tony Bananas), 's consigliere.
74_philadelphia philadelphia , 's body was found stuffed in a body bag in the trunk of a car in   .
75_philadelphia philadelphia About $300 in bills were jammed in his mouth and anus (to be interpreted as signs of greed).
76_philadelphia philadelphia The Commission had reportedly ordered 's murder because he assassinated  without their sanction.
77_philadelphia philadelphia Other  family members involved in 's murder were tortured and killed.
78_philadelphia philadelphia daughters noticed that  started drinking more heavily  and became erratically violent towards their mother, openly hitting her in public on at least  occasion.
79_philadelphia philadelphia Both  and  advised their mother to file for divorce and get an order of eviction to have him removed from their home.
80_philadelphia philadelphia In ,  took  and moved in with
81_philadelphia philadelphia She had changed her will and moved back in for fear that  would take  and flee.
82_philadelphia philadelphia During the holidays,  discovered  had removed files such as 's birth certificate and other records from the house.
83_philadelphia philadelphia Scripps and her  eldest daughters began documenting and keeping records of the assaults and went on    to obtain an eviction notice; however the judge refused to order his eviction.
84_philadelphia philadelphia told a friend that she began sleeping with a hammer under her bed because  new method of abuse is to wake her up in the middle of the night to scare and berate her.
85_philadelphia philadelphia On        who was asleep across the hall from her    daughter  was bludgeoned with a hammer by her husband of     8  .
86_philadelphia philadelphia daughter  had called the police on   994 at 3:30 am because she was unable to get into contact with her mother or  the police arrived and knocked down the locked door and found  unconscious in bed her sheets soaked in blood her terrier puppy next to her trying to comfort her.
87_philadelphia philadelphia Across the hall , then    had witnessed the crime that left her mother's skull irreparably broken.
88_philadelphia philadelphia was reported as saying, "Daddy gave Mommy boo-boos.
89_philadelphia philadelphia Daddy gave Mommy many boo-boos.
90_philadelphia philadelphia Why is Mommy wearing warpaint?"
91_philadelphia philadelphia Immediately the police began searching for  , in a matter of  '  BMW was found on the Tappan Zee Bridge with the bloody hammer inside, the authorities dragged the   for him, but still operated under the assumption he was still alive.
92_philadelphia philadelphia As  lay in the  hospital, her  husband,  , who was in the terminal stages of cirrhosis of the liver and had been hospitalized near , left his hospital bed to be at her side.
93_philadelphia philadelphia after the attack —  after the authorities stopped dragging the  for 's body—  was taken off life support and died without regaining consciousness.
94_philadelphia philadelphia In her death, she was able to give her liver, which was transplanted into her ex husband,  , saving his life.
95_philadelphia philadelphia "Her daughters acted on what they knew would be their mother's wishes," said family attorney, " left this world the way she lived in it-- loving and giving."
96_philadelphia philadelphia Her throat was cut from left to right, and she had been disembowelled, with her intestines thrown out of her abdomen over each of her shoulders.
97_philadelphia philadelphia The morgue examination revealed that part of her uterus was missing.
98_philadelphia philadelphia 's protruding tongue and swollen face led Dr  to think that she may have been asphyxiated with the handkerchief around her neck before her throat was cut.
99_philadelphia philadelphia As there was no blood trail leading to the yard, he was certain that she was killed where she was found.
100_philadelphia philadelphia He concluded that she suffered from a long-standing lung disease, that the victim was sober at the time of death, and had not consumed alcoholic beverages for at least some  before it.
101_philadelphia philadelphia was of the opinion that the murderer must have possessed anatomical knowledge to have sliced out the reproductive organs in a single movement with a blade about – inches (– cm) long.
102_philadelphia philadelphia However, the idea that the murderer possessed surgical skill was dismissed by other experts.
103_philadelphia philadelphia As her body was not examined extensively at the scene, it has also been suggested that the organ was removed by mortuary staff, who took advantage of bodies that had already been opened to extract organs that they could then sell as surgical specimens.
104_philadelphia philadelphia In his summing up,   raised the possibility that  was murdered deliberately to obtain the uterus, on the basis that an  had made inquiries at a  medical school for the purchase of such organs.
105_philadelphia philadelphia "The Lancet" rejected 's suggestion scathingly, pointed out "certain improbabilities and absurdities", and said it was "a grave error of judgement".
106_philadelphia philadelphia The "British Medical Journal" was similarly dismissive, and reported that the physician who requested the samples was a highly reputable doctor, unnamed, who had left the country   before the murder.
107_philadelphia philadelphia dropped the theory and never referred to it again.
108_philadelphia philadelphia The " " claimed the  doctor was from , and author   later speculated that the man in question was the notorious  .
109_philadelphia philadelphia Severely injured and losing consciousness,  declined the assistance of a priest who was offering to administer Last Rites.
110_philadelphia philadelphia While recuperating from the severe burns from the incident at a  naval hospital, his mother came to visit him by train from , carrying with her a jar of chicken soup on the  trip, which she fed him upon her arrival at the hospital, which  would credit for his unexpected recovery.
111_philadelphia philadelphia Despite wartime censorship of any details of the incident and secret classification after the war ended,  lobbied the government to memorialize the victims of the accident.
112_philadelphia philadelphia Because it was a great impediment to  commerce and warfare, there was no choice but to try to lift the Union blockade in any way possible.
113_philadelphia philadelphia "David" was  of the South's secret weapons.
114_philadelphia philadelphia Similar to the submarine "H.L. Hunley", the boat was designed to destroy enemy ships by stealthily sneaking up to their sides and placing an explosive on their hulls.
115_philadelphia philadelphia The "David" was only  feet long with a beam of  feet and a draft of  feet.
116_philadelphia philadelphia Her crew consisted of just  officers and men.
117_philadelphia philadelphia She was under the command of Lieutenant    during her   career.
118_philadelphia philadelphia On the night of  , at about 8:00 am the torpedo boat headed out from the pier toward the  gun ironclad USS "New Ironsides", which was considered the most formidable warship in the navy.
119_philadelphia philadelphia She had also survived a failed torpedo boat attack in  .
120_philadelphia philadelphia the rebels were approaching the ironclad when lookouts spotted them  yards away, just before they attached the torpedo.
121_philadelphia philadelphia The Union commander Captain    reported the following: ""At 9 p.m. discovered a very peculiar looking steamer which at  appeared like a boat standing toward our starboard beam from seaward; hailed her rapidly  times, and she making no reply, fired into her with musketry; she returned fire, dangerously wounding  W.
122_philadelphia philadelphia in charge of the deck the steamer struck us near No.  port, starboard side, exploding a large torpedo, shaking the vessel and throwing up an immense column of water, part of which fell on our decks.""
123_philadelphia philadelphia When the water fell back, some of it went down the ""s smokestack and put out the fire in her engine.
124_philadelphia philadelphia The explosion ripped a large fissure in the ironclad's starboard quarter and her crew had to quickly repair the hole but the ship remained leaky.
125_philadelphia philadelphia Damage was also inflicted to the ship's armory bulkhead and some storerooms, but casualties were light.
126_philadelphia philadelphia There were  wounded,  of whom later died, and a  man who suffered from "confusions".
127_philadelphia philadelphia "David" was heavily damaged, enough for her commander to order his men to abandon ship.
128_philadelphia philadelphia could not swim so he remained aboard and after the others left they tried to swim for nearby   under fire.
129_philadelphia philadelphia It was at this time Assistant Engineer    decided to go back to the torpedo boat where he restarted the fire and sailed away.
130_philadelphia philadelphia The remaining  Confederates, including Lieutenant , surrendered to the men of "New Ironsides" after evacuating the "David".
131_philadelphia philadelphia "New Ironsides" was apparently not in threat of sinking and the damage proved to be mostly superficial.
132_philadelphia philadelphia She returned to blockade duty after taking a short time in  to make repairs.
133_philadelphia philadelphia "David" was repaired as well and she eventually made attacks on USS "Memphis" and USS "Wabash".
134_philadelphia philadelphia Several torpedo boats of the "David" class were captured at the end of the war.
135_philadelphia philadelphia The "David" may have been among them.
136_philadelphia philadelphia was the only daughter of  , the majority stockholder in .
137_philadelphia philadelphia She was involved with  , "Tony the Zee," and was  when  was murdered.
138_philadelphia philadelphia Her relationship with  led to her addiction to heroin.
139_philadelphia philadelphia She was hospitalized in a private sanitarium in .
140_philadelphia philadelphia When she returned to ,  had a brief relationship with  .
141_philadelphia philadelphia She died of a heroin overdose in "The Murderers".
142_philadelphia philadelphia The Great  Fire in  burned for   straight and decimated a major part of central , including over  buildings.
143_philadelphia philadelphia Mutual aid companies from as far away as  ,  and    were called in to assist.
144_philadelphia philadelphia The fire led to uniform national standards in fire fighting equipment and protocols.
145_philadelphia philadelphia As with other large fires of the time, it was a predecessor to the stringent fire codes of .
146_philadelphia philadelphia In  he published a proposal for an experiment to prove that lightning is electricity by flying a kite in a storm that appeared capable of becoming a lightning storm.
147_philadelphia philadelphia On      of  conducted 's experiment using a -tall iron rod instead of a kite and he extracted electrical sparks from a cloud.
148_philadelphia philadelphia On    may possibly have conducted his famous kite experiment in , successfully extracting sparks from a cloud.
149_philadelphia philadelphia 's experiment was not written up with credit until  's  "History and  Status of Electricity"; the evidence shows that  was insulated (not in a conducting path, where he would have been in danger of electrocution).
150_philadelphia philadelphia Ors, such as Prof.    were indeed electrocuted during   following 's experiment.
151_philadelphia philadelphia Although her term was largely consumed by oversight of federally funded programs, upon assuming office as Deputy Director of the ,  became aware of a newly emerging threat, fentanyl overdose deaths in heroin addicts.
152_philadelphia philadelphia She rapidly organized a conference in  with treatment providers, emergency responders, emergency room professionals, law enforcement officials, representatives from city governments, other healthcare professionals,  to create a coordinated response to eliminate this threat to life.
153_philadelphia philadelphia Within  and for a number of reasons, fentanyl overdose deaths declined rapidly.
154_philadelphia philadelphia Of over  media events and interviews during her term, she gave  interviews on  distribution to heroin addicts and friends.
155_philadelphia philadelphia At that time, she strongly supported narcan rescue by trained healthcare personnel, but opposed distribution to heroin users and their friends, of overdose rescue kits of opiate-antidote naloxone (Narcan) in i.v. or nasal spray form.
156_philadelphia philadelphia Her opposition was based on discussions with  and  and a scientific literature survey by .
157_philadelphia philadelphia She voiced opposition to "take-home" narcan on the basis of inadequate scientific evidence to support this policy and on the basis of several publications of potential adverse outcomes.
158_philadelphia philadelphia " says drug users aren't likely to be competent to deal with an overdose emergency".
159_philadelphia philadelphia This quote was based on a several studies and the views of EMT responders, e.g.
160_philadelphia philadelphia Seal et al., , that indicated risks related to naloxone administration to opioid-dependent people, by untrained personnel.
161_philadelphia philadelphia Her opposition to "take-home" narcan arose from a number of factors cited in an   .
162_philadelphia philadelphia These included quoting Seal's detailed study of heroin – injectors in the    area,.
163_philadelphia philadelphia In this survey of  street-recruited 's who had experienced  or more heroin overdose events, 51% reported soliciting emergency assistance, 87% were in favor of participating in an overdose training program, "35% predicted they would feel comfortable using greater amounts of heroin if they had narcan in their possession, 62% would be less inclined to call  for an overdose, 30% would leave an overdose victim after nalox resusitation," and 46% might not be able to dissuade the victim from using heroin again to alleviate withdrawal symptoms induced by nalox.
164_philadelphia philadelphia Another article published by  , raised concerns that i) "the induction of an acute withdrawal syndrome (the occurrence of vomiting and aspiration is potentially life threatening)" – and that could lead to abandonment by a narcan provider/friend; ii) "the effect of naloxone may wear off prematurely when used for treatment of opioid-induced respiratory depression and require multiple doses and long-term vigilance".
165_philadelphia philadelphia "Risks warranting the cautious use of naloxone and adequate monitoring of the cardiorespiratory status of the overdose person after naloxone administration where indicated".
166_philadelphia philadelphia Based on the Seal study, she was concerned that  kits may  encourage 35% of drug abusers to use greater amounts of heroin because they thought overdosing isn't as likely, again leading to unintended consequences.
167_philadelphia philadelphia also felt that in the presence of healthcare professionals, the opportunity to provide detoxification and referral to treatment would be greater than in a "take-home" narcan provision program.
168_philadelphia philadelphia She was concerned that in a "take-home" narcan program, not all resuscitated heroin overdose events could be safely left alone.
169_philadelphia philadelphia This concern was based on an article by  et al. (): "In the medical community, it is recommended that patients with heroin overdose be watched for   2  after naloxone.
170_philadelphia philadelphia In a recent study, overdose patients were formally assessed   after receiving naloxone for presumed opioid overdose.
171_philadelphia philadelphia Of  patients, 8% were discharged in    , 3% in –  and 9% in > .
172_philadelphia philadelphia patients who were held in the emergency department (ED) or admitted required a critical intervention, including supplemental oxygen for hypoxia (), repeat naloxone (), antibiotics administered intravenously () (), assisted ventilations (), fluid bolus for hypotension (), charcoal for associated life-threatening overdose (),  inotropic agents (), antiarrhythmics for sustained tachycardia >0 beats/min (), and administration of bicarbonate for arterial [HCO3] < or venous CO < ()".
173_philadelphia philadelphia This study concluded that emergency physicians can clinically identify patients at risk of deterioration after naloxone reversal of suspected opioid overdose.
174_philadelphia philadelphia She was concerned that in the "take-home program", additional emergency room measures needed for a significant number of people (e.g.
175_philadelphia philadelphia 94/573), would not be available.
176_philadelphia philadelphia Finally, the majority of the scientific literature on take-home narcan (according to a  survey requested by Dr. ) was based on pilot studies, feasibility studies, or letters to the editor, an inadequate body of research for developing public policy or advocating a major change in medical procedures that could potentially save or cost precious lives.
177_philadelphia philadelphia 's funerl ws held in   little over   lter on   .
178_philadelphia philadelphia Her body was originally laid out at 's funeral home.
179_philadelphia philadelphia As word of her death spread through 's black community the body had to be moved to the     to accommodate the estimated  mourners who filed  her coffin on   .Contemporary newspapers reported that her funeral was attended by about   people.
180_philadelphia philadelphia Far fewer mourners attended the burial at   , in nearby  .
181_philadelphia philadelphia Gee thwarted all efforts to purchase a stone for his estranged wife,  or twice pocketing money raised for that purpose.
182_philadelphia philadelphia of the Black Mafia's most brutal, inexplicable crimes included the Dubrow Furniture Store robbery.
183_philadelphia philadelphia On       members robbed 's on South Street in .
184_philadelphia philadelphia They entered the store  by  posing as customers.
185_philadelphia philadelphia all were inside, they pulled guns on the  employees  and forced them to lie on the floor in the back of the store where they bound them with tape and electrical cord.
186_philadelphia philadelphia employees were beaten while  others were shot.
187_philadelphia philadelphia A janitor who walked in on the robbery while doing his job was shot and killed.
188_philadelphia philadelphia employee was doused with gasoline and set on fire.
189_philadelphia philadelphia After their vicious treatment of the employees, they looted the offices in the store and set more fires to destroy evidence of the robbery.
190_philadelphia philadelphia The  criminals fled the scene as soon as the fire alarm went off, purposefully trampling on  of the victim's bodies as they left.
191_philadelphia philadelphia This crime was so brutal that   wrote a novel based on it, "The ," and  Police Commissioner   was quoted as saying that the DuBrow crime was "the most vicious crime I have ever come across.
192_philadelphia philadelphia At 2:08 a.m.
193_philadelphia philadelphia (6:08 GMT), the  and largest of the explosions took place.
194_philadelphia philadelphia Fragments from the explosion traveled long distances, some lodging in the Statue of Liberty and some in the clock tower of "The Jersey Journal" building in Journal Square, over a mile away, stopping the clock at 2:12 a.m.
195_philadelphia philadelphia The explosion was the equivalent of an earthquake measuring between    on the  scale  was felt as far away as .
196_philadelphia philadelphia Windows broke as far as  away, including thousands in lower .
197_philadelphia philadelphia Some window panes in Times Square were completely shattered.
198_philadelphia philadelphia The outer wall of  's  Hall was cracked and the   was shaken.
199_philadelphia philadelphia People as far away as  were awakened by what they thought was an earthquake.
200_philadelphia philadelphia Finally,  attempts to gather irrefutable proof of the assassination attempt, wiring  with a hidden microphone and sending her off to meet a purported media contact.
201_philadelphia philadelphia Shadowing her from a distance, he is alarmed to see that his supposed contact is , not the reporter.
202_philadelphia philadelphia is the last loose end for  to eliminate, and her death will be attributed to the "Strangler."
203_philadelphia philadelphia Immediately realizing that she is in danger,  attempts to warn her, but  and  slip out of range and into the   parade.
204_philadelphia philadelphia makes a mad dash across , attempting to head them off and rescue .
205_philadelphia philadelphia He crashes his Jeep, though and is knocked out.
206_philadelphia philadelphia By the time  awakens,  has taken  to a rooftop where he attacks her.
207_philadelphia philadelphia Still listening in on his earpiece,  spots them.
208_philadelphia philadelphia He hears  screaming as he rushes to save her, but he is too late.
209_philadelphia philadelphia He arrives just after  has strangled her to death and is marking her body with the Strangler's signature bell pattern.
210_philadelphia philadelphia takes  by surprise and tries to capture him, but , laughing in his face, commits suicide.
211_philadelphia philadelphia , devastated and on his knees, then takes 's lifeless body in his arms.
212_philadelphia philadelphia While visiting her family in  on   ,   was driving alone in snowy, icy conditions.
213_philadelphia philadelphia Approaching an intersection on an isolated country road, she skidded and collided with a telephone pole, was thrown from the car into the snow, and went into shock.
214_philadelphia philadelphia Some time later, she was found and taken to   ; she had  smashed legs, a broken pelvis, broken arm, and ruptured spleen.
215_philadelphia philadelphia She spent   in  hospital, and over  course of     had  operations, which rebuilt her legs with rods and pins, as well as extensive physical rapy.
216_philadelphia philadelphia She did not tell her husband about the accident in her letters to him, believing he already had enough to worry about, and the    told a surgeon who operated upon her not to mention anything to the press, lest it worsen the treatment for  .
217_philadelphia philadelphia Businessman and POW advocate   paid for her medical care and she remained grateful to him, later saying: "The military families are in 's heart and in his soul ...
218_philadelphia philadelphia There are millions of us who are extremely grateful to  ."
219_philadelphia philadelphia after   found out about 's help, he said "we loved him for it."
220_philadelphia philadelphia She was interviewed on the "CBS Evening News" in , and said that  had no meaning for her without her husband , but that she carried on with it for the sake of their children.
221_philadelphia philadelphia The snail was  discovered at      by a field party from the Academy of Natural Sciences of .
222_philadelphia philadelphia In ,    reported the discovery, describing the snail as a subspecies of the widely distributed "Succinea ovalis".
223_philadelphia philadelphia Because of this, the  ovate amber snail is referred to in many publications as "Succinea ovalis chittenangoensis".
224_philadelphia philadelphia After the funeral Mass,  and  boarded the 21-car funeral train that took Senator 's body to ,  and    for burial.
225_philadelphia philadelphia and  were with Senator 's body,  ,  , and other  family members in the end car of the train.
226_philadelphia philadelphia The front page of the   168 edition of the " " has a large photograph that depicts   and  standing together on the rear platform of the funeral train as it passed through  .
227_philadelphia philadelphia is a successful but self-destructive  real estate salesman who is addicted to cocaine.
228_philadelphia philadelphia He embezzles $92,000 of his company's money from an escrow account and then loses it all to his addiction and the stock market.
229_philadelphia philadelphia Waking up  morning next to a girl who suffered a heart attack from a cocaine overdose, he tries to cover up the drug use, but the police make it clear that they know what happened.
230_philadelphia philadelphia There is also the matter of the company's money.
231_philadelphia philadelphia tries to flee the country but all flights are held up due to bad weather.
232_philadelphia philadelphia His collegue  lso refuses to put him up for    .
233_philadelphia philadelphia then lerns of  drug rehbilittion progrm which lsts    nd which gurntees nonymity.
234_philadelphia philadelphia He thus applies for it.
235_philadelphia philadelphia There, he meets , a tough but supportive drug rehabilitation counselor.
236_philadelphia philadelphia With great difficulty,  helps  to realize he is an addict and his life is complete chaos.
237_philadelphia philadelphia He says to him, "The best way to break old habits is to make new ones."
238_philadelphia philadelphia Judge  suffered a cerebral hemorrhage and died of pneumonia in  on   .
239_philadelphia philadelphia He was survived by his wife and daughter.
240_philadelphia philadelphia The ",  arsons" refer to a spree of deliberately-set fires in  and  in the area of , , a small  suburb.
241_philadelphia philadelphia There were  fires set in  in    and since    re have been 8 reported cases of arson in  city and  more in  surrounding area.
242_philadelphia philadelphia The fires have caused more than $3 million in damage, left scores of people homeless and resulted in the death of   woman.
243_philadelphia philadelphia As of  ,  people have been arrested in connection with some of the fires.
244_philadelphia philadelphia On    he was leading a formation of  army planes leaving the Sesquicentennial Exposition in  heading toward   in  when in heavy fog he hit a tree and crashed on Jacks Mountain near  .
245_philadelphia philadelphia He was seriously injured, including  broken legs, and after waiting in vain for rescue he crawled -and-a-half miles to a road where he was found by highway workers.
246_philadelphia philadelphia He was admitted to   and then airlifted to    in  where he was expected to recover but he died on   926 of spinal meningitis.
247_philadelphia philadelphia On     twisted a knee in a game at .
248_philadelphia philadelphia He was given diathermy treatment ("electrically induced heat" used for muscle relaxation) in the clubhouse by   trainer,  .
249_philadelphia philadelphia 's leg suffered  degree burns during the treatment, and gangrene eventually set in."It was a new method of treatment and not too much was known about it,"  said,  .
250_philadelphia philadelphia "I noticed my leg felt awfully hot.
251_philadelphia philadelphia I ended up with third-degree burns and a gangrene infection and almost lost my leg.
252_philadelphia philadelphia I was finished in the Majors...
253_philadelphia philadelphia I couldn't run and I couldn't field and when I got hurt, that was the end."
254_philadelphia philadelphia attempted a comeback but injured his leg again in   and saw limited action for the rest of the season, mostly as a pinch hitter.
255_philadelphia philadelphia wound up hitting  in  and played his last   game was on    against the   .
256_philadelphia philadelphia "The  Experiment   Zapped to Death"  -Premiere Date:     at 10PM e/p  "I Have 's Brain    Killer Thoughts"  -Premiere Date:     at 10PM e/p  "Sexy Secret Agent Full Body Transplant Honey I Nuked the Planet"  -Premiere Date:     at 10PM e/p  "It's Alive! Tripping with Uncle  My Hand is Killing Me"  -Premiere Date:     at 10PM e/p  " Grams Missing  Sound of Death"  -Premiere Date:     at 10PM e/p  "Jekyll vs  How to Make a Zombie Radio Waves of Death"  -Premiere Date:     at 10PM e/p
257_philadelphia philadelphia Confusion reigns at the  television studio in  by the pandemic's  , where staff member  and his girlfriend  are planning to steal the station's traffic helicopter to escape the zombies.
258_philadelphia philadelphia Meanwhile,  and his SWAT team raid an apartment building where the residents are ignoring the martial law of delivering the dead to National Guardsmen.
259_philadelphia philadelphia Some residents attack with rifles, and are slaughtered by the  operatives and by their own reanimated dead.
260_philadelphia philadelphia During the raid,  meets , part of another SWAT team, with whom he kills the zombies concealed below the building.
261_philadelphia philadelphia That night,  and  escape  with  and  via helecopter.
262_philadelphia philadelphia Following some close calls while stopping for fuel, the group comes across a shopping mall, which becomes their sanctuary.
263_philadelphia philadelphia To make the mall safe for habitation, they kill its zombie population and block the entrance to keep the zombies outside from entering.
264_philadelphia philadelphia During the operation,  becomes infected by the zombies' mutagen; but after clearing the mall of its zombies, the  live hedonistically upon its contents.
265_philadelphia philadelphia Later, they come to perceive themselves imprisoned by the zombies, and reveal that  is   pregnant.
266_philadelphia philadelphia The men begin to consider leaving the mall;  opposes the plan, but teaches  how to operate the helicopter in case of emergency.
267_philadelphia philadelphia eventually succumbs to his wounds, reanimates, and is shot by .
268_philadelphia philadelphia All emergency broadcast transmissions have ceased, suggesting that most civilization around them has collapsed.
269_philadelphia philadelphia On   141  and  planned to fly from   to .
270_philadelphia philadelphia The weather conditions were not suitable for flight but the couple insisted and did not heed to the warnings.
271_philadelphia philadelphia In the blinding rain the plane crashed into the side of a mountain killing the young couple instantly.
272_philadelphia philadelphia was  and had no children.
273_philadelphia philadelphia The nor'easter struck    after the  Perfect Storm produced similarly high tides across the region, and only   after another nor'easter in  .
274_philadelphia philadelphia In ,  , the storm dropped  of rainfall, which broke the daily rainfall record set in .
275_philadelphia philadelphia High tides damaged much of the dune system along the     and about a  of the newly-installed dunes in  , .
276_philadelphia philadelphia Along the  coast, the storm dropped heavy rainfall, with a total of  in ; the high rains flooded local streams.
277_philadelphia philadelphia At   , wind gusts peaked at .
278_philadelphia philadelphia The storm struck shortly after a full moon, and the combination of high tides and waves breached dunes in some locations.
279_philadelphia philadelphia Despite its longevity, the nor'easter was less severe than its predecessors along the  , mostly because the stronger northeast quadrant was over the coastline for  tidal cycle, and the predominant southeast winds were blocked by  .
280_philadelphia philadelphia However, there were still high tides and flooding along the  .
281_philadelphia philadelphia In , the nor'easter produced a high tide of , which at the time was the  highest on record.
282_philadelphia philadelphia High tides continued in  until  .
283_philadelphia philadelphia of high tides caused minor beach erosion and damaged dune systems.
284_philadelphia philadelphia In  , there was property damage from coastal flooding.
285_philadelphia philadelphia The storm produced significantly more rainfall than the storm in  , including a total of  in , .
286_philadelphia philadelphia A station in    reported a record   rainfall total of .
287_philadelphia philadelphia The rains caused flooding and the  highest discharge on record at   in .
288_philadelphia philadelphia Wind in  peaked at  at a station along the  .
289_philadelphia philadelphia Further north along the  , a high tide of  was reported in , .
290_philadelphia philadelphia High winds in the city broke the steeple of a church, and the resulting debris briefly closed the Ben Franklin Bridge.
291_philadelphia philadelphia Hurricane force wind gusts left about  residents without power.
292_philadelphia philadelphia Heavy snowfall spread across the state, reaching .
293_philadelphia philadelphia reported a total of , which contributed to its snowiest  on record.
294_philadelphia philadelphia has had several injuries over his career.
295_philadelphia philadelphia In   he broke his kneecap when he hit a wall at    in , forcing him to sit out    season.
296_philadelphia philadelphia He recovered and beat    in Taurus at    in ,  .
297_philadelphia philadelphia Later in , a hard side hit on the wall of    in ,  broke several ribs near his backbone and caused recurring problems throughout his career.
298_philadelphia philadelphia A nose-dive, AKA  lawn dart, at    in   in  aggravated  injury and caused  to miss several shows over     .
299_philadelphia philadelphia He reinjured himself at a Special Events show in , .
300_philadelphia philadelphia A broken hand from a non-driving accident in  in   him out for half of that .
301_philadelphia philadelphia Anor was an injury that was less known about was an injury to his right wrist during     in a non monster truck accident.
302_philadelphia philadelphia 's most recent injury is an arm injury at the Metrodome in  , meaning his son   drove   at shows in  .
303_philadelphia philadelphia For loading a  ,  would typically fire a couple of percussion caps on the handgun, to dry out any residual moisture contained in the tube or at the base of the barrel, to prevent a subsequent misfire.
304_philadelphia philadelphia would then remove the remains of the last fired percussion cap and place the handgun on its half-cock notch, pour  to  grains of blackpowder down the barrel, followed by ramming a patched lead ball down onto the powder, being very careful to leave no air gap between the patched ball and the powder, to prevent the handgun from exploding when used.
305_philadelphia philadelphia (The purpose of the patch on the ball was to keep the ball firmly lodged against the powder, to avoid creating what was called a "short start" when the ball was dislodged from being firmly against the powder.)
306_philadelphia philadelphia A new percussion cap would then be placed on the tube (what  would be called a nipple), and the gun was then loaded and ready to fire.
307_philadelphia philadelphia (The half-cock notch prevented the hammer from falling if the trigger were bumped accidentally while carrying the handgun in 's coat pocket.)
308_philadelphia philadelphia Then, to fire the handgun, a user would fully cock the hammer, aim, and squeeze the trigger.
309_philadelphia philadelphia Upon  misfire, the user could fully re-cock the hmmer, nd ttempt to fire the hndgun  more, or, eqully common, switch to   Deringer.
310_philadelphia philadelphia Accuracy was highly variable; although front sights were common, rear sights were less common, and some   had no sights at all, being intended for point and shoot use instead of aim and shoot, across  distances.
311_philadelphia philadelphia Professional gamblers, and others who carried regularly, often would fire and reload daily, to decrease the chance of a misfire upon needing to use a  .
312_philadelphia philadelphia Whilst lecturing in   was paid by  , the largest firm of locomotive builders, to investigate a fatal accident in Reading, near , where a boiler had exploded on a newly made train.
313_philadelphia philadelphia pronounced that the accident had been caused by lightning, which meant that  brothers were not personally liable for the accident.
314_philadelphia philadelphia A committee of the   pointed out that there was no lightning  at that time and that the pumps had been faulty, the water indicator was ill-designed and the bridge-bands made of cast iron rather than wrought iron.
315_philadelphia philadelphia The Coroner's inquest jury were persuaded by  that the accident was an 'act of God' but the company were careful to design their later locomotives with wrought-iron bands.
316_philadelphia philadelphia On    during the offseason after his rookie  campaign  was on a boating trip to   in   with  players from the ' minor-league affiliate     and   when a freak accident caused him to suffer fatal injuries.
317_philadelphia philadelphia The boat hit a wave and caused him to fall forward overboard.
318_philadelphia philadelphia The boat ran over him and its propeller slashed his neck and his jugular vein.
319_philadelphia philadelphia Twice during his baseball career  went into the stands during a game to aid a fan who was suffering a heart attack.
320_philadelphia philadelphia In  in  he performed CPR and mouth-to-mouth on a fan who died later that .
321_philadelphia philadelphia In a  game between the   and the   he revived a man who was suffering a heart attack.
322_philadelphia philadelphia The man survived and lived several more .
323_philadelphia philadelphia The result of the sudden shift of the party line caused shock and confusion among many members of the   , a goodly number of whom had joined during the period of the Popular Front against fascism.
324_philadelphia philadelphia declared at   rally that only "a  or so" had left the  over the change of line; in actuality the party's ranks fell by 15% between     recruitment of new members in  fell by 75% over  levels.
325_philadelphia philadelphia The public image of the  as a main bulwark against fascism and claims of the  as an indigenous radical organization were severely undermined.
326_philadelphia philadelphia According to "The Baseball Necrology",  died in  from injuries suffered when he was "thrown through a saloon window" in .
327_philadelphia philadelphia ("The Baseball Necrology: The Post-Baseball Lives and Deaths of Over     and Others", by  .)
328_philadelphia philadelphia In  ,   after  fired ,  committed suicide by overdosing on prescription drugs in , .
329_philadelphia philadelphia He had been suffering from clinical depression, which  believes was brought on by medication he had been taking since suffering a heart attack in .
330_philadelphia philadelphia In the  area,  homes were flooded and  residents were evacuated.
331_philadelphia philadelphia Around  people became stranded at the Radisson Hotel.
332_philadelphia philadelphia Although wind gusts were below hurricane-force in , saturated ground from the torrential precipitation resulted in widespread downed trees, some of which struck houses and vehicles.
333_philadelphia philadelphia 's Covered Bridge sustained severe damage due to fallen trees.
334_philadelphia philadelphia Over  homes and businesses lost power as a result of Tropical Storm Floyd.
335_philadelphia philadelphia On the  , which spans the  , high winds tipped over some cars of a freight train.
336_philadelphia philadelphia produced moderate to heavy rainfall across the eastern half of the state, concentrated in extreme southeastern areas, where as much as  of precipitation fell.
337_philadelphia philadelphia In  , the highest verifiable storm rainfall total of  was reported.
338_philadelphia philadelphia The  of precipitation at    set a new daily rainfall record and an overall  record.
339_philadelphia philadelphia Rain from the storm exceeded  levels along the axis of the most severe downpours.
340_philadelphia philadelphia A cold front that stalled on   acted as a conveyor belt of tropical moisture, which reached the area early that same .
341_philadelphia philadelphia The rainfall had abated by the afternoon on  .
342_philadelphia philadelphia Winds were generally below , although a gust to  occurred at the Commodore Barry Bridge.
343_philadelphia philadelphia Upon making landfall,  produced a storm surge that tracked up the  , with a station along the river in  reporting a storm tide of  feet ( m).
344_philadelphia philadelphia There, the surge flooded low-lying areas along the river.
345_philadelphia philadelphia The large circulation of the hurricane produced moderate winds throughout the state, with wind gusts in the southeastern portion of the state reaching  mph ( km/h) in  .
346_philadelphia philadelphia ,  also recorded a wind gust of  mph ( km/h), which contributed to severe delays at the   .
347_philadelphia philadelphia The moderate wind gust downed thousands of trees, tree limbs, and power lines.
348_philadelphia philadelphia energy reported their worst power outage on record with about  customers losing electricity.
349_philadelphia philadelphia The company estimated it would cost at least $20 million ( USD, $23 million 2008 USD) for it to install about  miles ( km) of new cable and install about  new fuses and circuit breakers.
350_philadelphia philadelphia The   power company reported  customers without power, with    and Light customers losing electricity.
351_philadelphia philadelphia Continuing northward, heavy rains from  spread into , bringing further floods to the already storm-stricken state.
352_philadelphia philadelphia Already saturated by the remnants of Hurricanes  and , soil across the state was unable to hold much additional moisture, resulting in widespread flooding.
353_philadelphia philadelphia Rainfall peaked at  in  ; this ranks  as the  wettest tropical cyclone on record in .
354_philadelphia philadelphia Numerous creeks, streams and rivers overflowed their banks and inundated nearby areas.
355_philadelphia philadelphia In  , the   rose  above flood stage, resulting in swift water rescues and prompting emergency officials to open shelters.
356_philadelphia philadelphia Numerous roads across the state were shut down due to high waters.
357_philadelphia philadelphia In , flash flooding resulted in  fatality after a woman was swept away by swift currents while trying to board a  bus.
358_philadelphia philadelphia people attempted to rescue her, however, she became trapped under a pickup truck and drowned.
359_philadelphia philadelphia Several abandoned buildings in the city also collapsed.
360_philadelphia philadelphia A commuter train carrying  people was evacuated after passengers felt uneasy due to loose soil underneath the rails.
361_philadelphia philadelphia of the major roadways connecting  with a western suburb was shut down after more than  covered portions of it.
362_philadelphia philadelphia Several water rescues had to be made along the road after residents became trapped in flood waters.
363_philadelphia philadelphia Additionally, several schools were closed on   due to hazardous conditions.
364_philadelphia philadelphia In all,  left $290 million ( USD; $  USD)in losses throughout .
365_philadelphia philadelphia While in  ,  ,  met and became involved with the  screenwriter  , a native of , .
366_philadelphia philadelphia During the time they were briefly apart in   ( in   ,  in ),  wrote to  that she was pregnant with his child.
367_philadelphia philadelphia wrote back to propose.
368_philadelphia philadelphia Although  did not receive  letter, she telephoned    to inform  she was arriving in .
369_philadelphia philadelphia had a chance to propose to her in person, but insisted that he did not want the child.
370_philadelphia philadelphia suffered a miscarriage shortly thereafter.
371_philadelphia philadelphia On    the couple married in   .
372_philadelphia philadelphia After the wedding, the couple moved back to  .
373_philadelphia philadelphia After suffering a series of strokes  eventually became paralyzed before his death on   .
374_philadelphia philadelphia An unusually detailed accounting of the storm's passage through  ,  was provided   :  a local resident undertook an informal, but detailed survey of the damage produced by the storm, and this account was published in an   () newspaper.
375_philadelphia philadelphia This accounting establishes a steady SW-to-NE movement through the county, with a number of buildings - sharecropper cabins, large homes, and a mill - swept away along the path.
376_philadelphia philadelphia As the storm passed  SE of downtown , it may have peaked in intensity; it was noted that all structures along a  segment of the path (beginning at this point) were destroyed.
377_philadelphia philadelphia The surveyor noted a path width of  to , with the most extreme damage (and most deaths) in the   community.
378_philadelphia philadelphia The surveyor noted that:
379_philadelphia philadelphia Tracking to the northeast, it crossed the Pee Dee River into  , and produced sporadic damage until just southeast of .
380_philadelphia philadelphia Extreme damage to pine forests was  noted just south of town.
381_philadelphia philadelphia Strengthening considerably, the storm swept through the southeast edge of , where large homes were destroyed to their foundations, and large hardwood trees were snapped at ground level.
382_philadelphia philadelphia The   community (presently on  Highway ,  miles northeast of downtown ) was devastated, with most of the poorly constructed dwellings in the community completely destroyed.
383_philadelphia philadelphia The storm had widened to nearly  mile in width at this point.
384_philadelphia philadelphia 's name will forever be linked to other  tragedies.
385_philadelphia philadelphia In , 's  offensive line teammate,  , was killed in an automobile accident during his rookie season with the  .
386_philadelphia philadelphia During the  season,   offensive line teammate   was paralyzed during a football game.
387_philadelphia philadelphia after 's death,   defensive tackle   was killed in an automobile accident.
388_philadelphia philadelphia And   after 's death, linebacker   was also killed in an automobile accident.
389_philadelphia philadelphia Ironically,  was 's teammate with both  and the  .
390_philadelphia philadelphia " " was an  kidnapping victim.
391_philadelphia philadelphia She was abducted on    from a  sidewalk.
392_philadelphia philadelphia There was  witness , a    child named  .
393_philadelphia philadelphia tried to help  but was pushed to the ground before  men pulled off.
394_philadelphia philadelphia When 's grandmother called for  and her sister, a crying  stated that  had been kidnapped, but her sister was around the corner.
395_philadelphia philadelphia 's bductors bound her hnds nd feet nd held her cptive in  vcnt house until she ws ble to free herself by gnwing t the tpe on her wrists nd then smshing  window,  dy fter the kidnpping.
396_philadelphia philadelphia Both 's bravery and the media's handling of the situation attracted considerable attention.
397_philadelphia philadelphia Prof.  was asked to comment by the    on    on an alleged collision between the  and a comet reported by Prof.  of .
398_philadelphia philadelphia stated that no such collision occurred on    since there was no comet near the  at the time of the collision.
399_philadelphia philadelphia theorized that a Comet could not collide with the  because planets and comets are electrically positive and therefore repel each other, "If a comet were to strike the earth it would smash the comet into meteoric dust in  ."
400_philadelphia philadelphia There have been case studies of claims made.
401_philadelphia philadelphia Following a    fellowship in , Dr.    conducted a case study of  people who claimed to have been cured during her services.
402_philadelphia philadelphia 's long-term follow-ups concluded there were no cures in those cases.
403_philadelphia philadelphia Furrmore, " woman who was said to have been cured of spinal cancer threw away her brace and ran across  stage at 's command; her spine collapsed   , according to , and she died   ."
404_philadelphia philadelphia In ,  died in , , following open-heart surgery.
405_philadelphia philadelphia The film opens with  Police Detective   ( ) in a snowy wood.
406_philadelphia philadelphia In   , Hobbes gains notoriety for capturing serial killer   ( ).
407_philadelphia philadelphia After  is executed,  and his partner  ( ) investigate a string of murders by an apparent copycat killer.
408_philadelphia philadelphia Eventually  tracks down the killer and confronts him alone, where the man makes a startling claim: he is the same killer  sentenced to death, but not  ; rather, he is the demon , and was possessing 's body during the murders.
409_philadelphia philadelphia claims he can possess any person merely by touching them.
410_philadelphia philadelphia of the few exceptions is Detective Hobbes, which has turned 's ire at the Detective for capturing him into an obsession.
411_philadelphia philadelphia Hobbes is skeptical of 's claims until the demon begins to sing "Time Is on My Side", then begins to possess people via touch, continuing to sing the song as he moves from body to body before fading away into the crowd of people on the street.
412_philadelphia philadelphia Hobbes follows a lead from a riddle  gave him concerning  , a decorated cop who committed suicide in his mountain cabin   .
413_philadelphia philadelphia locates 's daughter,  ( ), who explains that her father was framed for corruption and killed himself to avoid his eventual conviction.
414_philadelphia philadelphia When  journeys to the cabin, he finds a clue uncovering a deeper truth: when he died  was trying to kill .
415_philadelphia philadelphia In  itself, the combination of snow and sleet closed many of the schools, delayed flights, trains and buses.
416_philadelphia philadelphia The school district parochial schools were closed on the , as were the regional and central administrative offices.
417_philadelphia philadelphia During the midday  on the , giant slabs of ice slid off tops of buildings in   and crashed to the ground.
418_philadelphia philadelphia Chunks of ice as large as  feet wide made their way to the pavement from high up.
419_philadelphia philadelphia Police started to block off areas where the ice was falling, however  man was hit in the head by the falling ice and was knocked to the ground.
420_philadelphia philadelphia In  , state police closed Interstates  and 3 during the afternoon of the  because of bad road conditions.
421_philadelphia philadelphia Interstate  was closed between Interstates  and 3.
422_philadelphia philadelphia The combination of a heavy snowfall then a mix of sleet, snow and freezing rain made for hazardous road conditions.
423_philadelphia philadelphia The mixed precipitation made it more difficult for some road crews to keep up.
424_philadelphia philadelphia At 4 PM EST on the  the interstates reopened after ice was removed and the road surfaces was safe for travel.
425_philadelphia philadelphia In and around the Greater   area, in  , slippery road conditions contributed to a tractor-trailer accident on the  on Route  in  .
426_philadelphia philadelphia The highway was closed for    , which forced motorists to detour on slush-covered side streets.
427_philadelphia philadelphia In , a large portion of the roof of a four-story building was blown off, forcing residents to evacuate the building.
428_philadelphia philadelphia An  pillar was knocked down at the    in .
429_philadelphia philadelphia In  , a fire sparked by fallen power lines destroyed a barn and partially melted a nearby metal shed.
430_philadelphia philadelphia The blaze was fully contained by  firefighters.
431_philadelphia philadelphia Another fire sparked by fallen power lines destroyed a garage in   .
432_philadelphia philadelphia In , the roof of a portable classroom began to peel off, forcing the  students inside to evacuate to a safer structure.
433_philadelphia philadelphia A large tree fell through  house and severely damaged the roof of a nearby home.
434_philadelphia philadelphia Numerous major highways and local streets were shut down for   to allow cleanup crews to clear debris.
435_philadelphia philadelphia Throughout the state, damages from the storm system amounted to $3.7 million.
436_philadelphia philadelphia Some heroin dealers mix fentanyl powder with heroin to increase potency or compensate for low-quality heroin.
437_philadelphia philadelphia In , illegally manufactured, non-pharmaceutical fentanyl often mixed with cocaine or heroin caused an outbreak of overdose deaths in the  , heavily concentrated in the cities of , ; ; ; ; ; ;  ; ; ,  ;  ; and  were also affected.
438_philadelphia philadelphia The mixture of fentanyl and heroin is known as "magic" or "the bomb", among other names, on the street.
439_philadelphia philadelphia .
440_philadelphia philadelphia .
441_philadelphia philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
442_philadelphia philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
443_philadelphia philadelphia Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
444_philadelphia philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
445_philadelphia philadelphia New Edition.
446_philadelphia philadelphia , ,  , :   .
447_philadelphia philadelphia .
448_philadelphia philadelphia .
449_philadelphia philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
450_philadelphia philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
451_philadelphia philadelphia Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
452_philadelphia philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
453_philadelphia philadelphia New Edition.
454_philadelphia philadelphia , ,  , :   .
455_philadelphia philadelphia .
456_philadelphia philadelphia .
457_philadelphia philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
458_philadelphia philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
459_philadelphia philadelphia Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
460_philadelphia philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
461_philadelphia philadelphia New Edition.
462_philadelphia philadelphia , ,  , :   .
463_philadelphia philadelphia .
464_philadelphia philadelphia .
465_philadelphia philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
466_philadelphia philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
467_philadelphia philadelphia Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
468_philadelphia philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
469_philadelphia philadelphia New Edition.
470_philadelphia philadelphia , ,  , :   .
471_philadelphia philadelphia queen  was living during this time.
472_philadelphia philadelphia .
473_philadelphia philadelphia .
474_philadelphia philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
475_philadelphia philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
476_philadelphia philadelphia Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
477_philadelphia philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
478_philadelphia philadelphia New Edition.
479_philadelphia philadelphia , ,  , :   .
480_philadelphia philadelphia .
481_philadelphia philadelphia .
482_philadelphia philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
483_philadelphia philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
484_philadelphia philadelphia Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
485_philadelphia philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
486_philadelphia philadelphia New Edition.
487_philadelphia philadelphia , ,  , :   .
488_philadelphia philadelphia .
489_philadelphia philadelphia .
490_philadelphia philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
491_philadelphia philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
492_philadelphia philadelphia Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
493_philadelphia philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
494_philadelphia philadelphia New Edition.
495_philadelphia philadelphia , ,  , :   .
496_philadelphia philadelphia .
497_philadelphia philadelphia .
498_philadelphia philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
499_philadelphia philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
500_philadelphia philadelphia Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
501_philadelphia philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
502_philadelphia philadelphia New Edition.
503_philadelphia philadelphia , ,  , :   .
504_philadelphia philadelphia .
505_philadelphia philadelphia .
506_philadelphia philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
507_philadelphia philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
508_philadelphia philadelphia Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
509_philadelphia philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
510_philadelphia philadelphia New Edition.
511_philadelphia philadelphia , ,  , :   .
512_philadelphia philadelphia .
513_philadelphia philadelphia .
514_philadelphia philadelphia Heroes of the Dark Continent and How Stanley Found  .
515_philadelphia philadelphia A complete history of all the great explorations and discoveries in , from the earliest ages to the  time, including a full, authentic and thrilling account of 's famous relief of  , replete with astounding incidents, wonderful adventures, mysterious providences, grand achievements, and glorious deeds, as reed in the devoted lives and splendid careers of such brilliant characters as   ,  , Gen. () , and all the other great travellers, hunters and explorers, who, for     , have made  a land of wonders by their heroism and unparalleled daring.
516_philadelphia philadelphia Covering the whole history of  exploration and discovery.
517_philadelphia philadelphia Enlivened with stories of marvellous hunts and wonderful adventures among wild animals, ferocious reptiles, and curious and savage races of people who inhabit the dark continent.
518_philadelphia philadelphia New Edition.
519_philadelphia philadelphia , ,  , :   .
520_philadelphia philadelphia Fire Insurance has over   of history in .
521_philadelphia philadelphia The early fire marks of  's time can still be seen on some  buildings as well as in other older  cities.
522_philadelphia philadelphia Subscribers paid fire fighting companies in advance for fire protection and in exchange would receive a fire mark to attach to their building.
523_philadelphia philadelphia The payments for the fire marks supported the fire fighting companies.
524_philadelphia philadelphia Volunteer fire departments were also common in the  , and some fire insurers contributed money to these departments and awarded bonuses to the  fire engine arriving at the scene of a fire.
525_philadelphia philadelphia The role of incendiary vessels changed throughout the age of the modern fire ship.
526_philadelphia philadelphia The systematic use of fire ships as part of naval actions peaked around the   War.
527_philadelphia philadelphia Whereas just   before a naval fleet might have  to  fire ships, by the Battle of  in  both the    fleets employed typically between    fire ships,  sometimes more.
528_philadelphia philadelphia By this time, however, admirals and captains had become very experienced with the limitations of fire ship attacks and had learned how to avoid them during battle.
529_philadelphia philadelphia Great numbers of fire ships were expended during the    without destroying enemy men-of-war, and fire ships had become a way to harass and annoy the enemy, rather than destroy him.
530_philadelphia philadelphia The successful use  fire ships at the     and  in  marked both the greatest achievement  a fire ship attack since the  , and also the last significant success for fire ships.
531_philadelphia philadelphia Though fire ships as a specified class sailed with the    for  , they would never have a significant impact on a naval victory.
532_philadelphia philadelphia most feared weapons in naval arsenals, fire ships had declined in both importance  numbers, so that by    only  to   fire ships would be at sea at a time,     attempted only  attacks using modern fire ships between   .
533_philadelphia philadelphia Hastily outfitted ad hoc fire ships continued to be used in naval warfare; for example, a large number of fire rafts were used in mostly ineffective attacks on the  fleet by  forces during the   at , on the  , and elsewhere.
534_philadelphia philadelphia The end of  modern fire ship came in    , when   began to use hastily outfitted fire ships at engagements such as Boulogne and  despite  presence of purpose-built fire ships in  fleet.
535_philadelphia philadelphia The last modern fire ship in the    was "Thais", the only designated fire ship out of the entire navy of  warships when she was converted to a ship sloop in .
536_philadelphia philadelphia On      was the site of  of the worst train accidents in the   when    Railroad trains collided with  another near the   station (later renamed to    the defunct Fellwick Station).
537_philadelphia philadelphia The exact number of deaths is uncertain, but  were killed instantly and dozens more perished from their injuries.
538_philadelphia philadelphia Many of the dead were children from  's    from the  section of , who were traveling to 's , a park in the   area, for a  school picnic.
539_philadelphia philadelphia In , an on-duty cop gets a call from a man he calls "Colonel" to pick up a briefcase at a nearby train station.
540_philadelphia philadelphia As he does so, a nearby pulse causes electronics to gain static, and his body becomes hardened.
541_philadelphia philadelphia He explodes, killing  people and injuring others with his hardened body parts.
542_philadelphia philadelphia Initially thinking the explosion was caused by a bomb, the Fringe team arrives to investigate, and discover that instead of a bomb, the cop's body parts killed the others.
543_philadelphia philadelphia A further utopsy revels needle mrks between the cop's toes, nd they relize he ws injecting some type of drug every dy for    yer.
544_philadelphia philadelphia Everything appeared in order as the train passed through   station ahead of schedule and slowed its speed, but shortly afterward, as it passed a rail yard, workers noticed flames coming from a journal box (a hot box) on  of the cars  and rang the next signal tower at  , but the call came too late.
545_philadelphia philadelphia Before the tower man could react, disaster struck as the train passed his signal tower at 6:06 pm traveling at a speed of  mph.
546_philadelphia philadelphia The journal box on the front of car #7 seized and an axle snapped, catching the underside of the truck and catapulting the car upwards.
547_philadelphia philadelphia It struck a signal gantry, which peeled off its roof along the line of windows "like a can of sardines".
548_philadelphia philadelphia Car #8 wrapped itself around the gantry upright in a figure U.
549_philadelphia philadelphia The next  cars were scattered at odd angles over the tracks, and the last  cars remained undamaged, with bodies of the  dead lying scattered over the tracks.
550_philadelphia philadelphia As it was wartime, many servicemen home on leave were aboard who helped  injured, workers from  nearby Cramp's shipyard arrived with acetylene torches to cut open cars to rescue  injured, a process that took until   .
551_philadelphia philadelphia The rescue work was directed by mayor  .
552_philadelphia philadelphia The work of removing the dead was not complete until   after the accident.
553_philadelphia philadelphia At 2:13pm    National's Flight  a DC-4 landed in  from    enroute to  .
554_philadelphia philadelphia It skidded off the icy runway, through a fence, and into a ditch.
555_philadelphia philadelphia The left wing broke off, rupturing the gasoline tanks, and the plane caught fire.
556_philadelphia philadelphia opened the emergency door and saw the ground  feet below.
557_philadelphia philadelphia Returning to the cabin, she helped passengers release their seat belts, guided them to the door and gave a gentle shove to those who were hesitant to jump.
558_philadelphia philadelphia After saving  passengers, she returned to the cabin to try to rescue a baby.
559_philadelphia philadelphia After the fire was extinguished, the bodies of  women and  infants were found.
560_philadelphia philadelphia of the women was   with a   infant in her arms.
561_philadelphia philadelphia In  ,  died penniless and alone at age .
562_philadelphia philadelphia According to the "Sporting Life", the "   of his life were spent in abject poverty and mental gloom."
563_philadelphia philadelphia He reportedly lived in a "seedy  rooming house," and died of "consumption of the bowels" at  ."
564_philadelphia philadelphia According to several accounts, a policeman at the morgue saw the body and believed it to be .
565_philadelphia philadelphia was called to the morgue and confirmed that the body was .
566_philadelphia philadelphia His funeral was poorly attended by his former baseball colleagues, and  former player who did attend observed, "There were not enough friends of  at his funeral to bury him and we had to call on the hack drivers to make up the list of active pall-bearers."
567_philadelphia philadelphia Following 's death,   , , editor of "Sporting Life" wrote:"So   has passed into the great beyond, and the man whose salary figure marked the high-water limit of the long ago is gone!
568_philadelphia philadelphia ... What a ball player this  was and what an artist in getting the fat salaries!
569_philadelphia philadelphia ...  was a real infielder of the type so popular    --   of the solid, bulky style through whom no grounder seemed able to pass, but who could nevertheless wave the hot s goodbye with graceful ease when occasion demanded.
570_philadelphia philadelphia With the gloves  in use to aid,  would have been even a bigger wonder  than then."
571_philadelphia philadelphia a resident  King    died on    at the Hospital  the    in  at the age  . had suffered from  health problems, including kidney ailments, and injuries from a car accident   before his death may have contributed to his declining health.
572_philadelphia philadelphia He suffered the car accident shortly after returning from a trip to  in  , and had been hospitalized on several occasions since the accident.
573_philadelphia philadelphia The bridge passes over an oil refinery (originally owned by  ,  by  ).
574_philadelphia philadelphia It has been imperiled a few times by fires at the refinery.
575_philadelphia philadelphia On    fire broke out in a tank to the northeast of the bridge that was being filled with  crude oil.
576_philadelphia philadelphia As the fire enveloped much of the refinery, several explosions put a large crack in a smokestack next to the bridge.
577_philadelphia philadelphia Officials closed the bridge for  , fearing that the stack might collapse or the fire might damage the bridge.
578_philadelphia philadelphia The     also killed  firefighters.
579_philadelphia philadelphia was found dead by a police officer in   after he had died in    of  morning after a bar room brawl.
580_philadelphia philadelphia , the son of  , wrote of his recollection of 's death, stating that the papers proclaimed  was found dead at the doorway when he had planned on going to paint the dawn, when in actuality, the harmless old man had been beaten to death by  of the other customers at the bar.
581_philadelphia philadelphia In reference to his funeral, it was crowded by family and  and  friends.
582_philadelphia philadelphia He was buried in an  embroidered waistcoat that was  of his most important and valuable possessions.
583_philadelphia philadelphia According to newspaper reports,  funeral took place in    on Broadway 31-Oct-1933.
584_philadelphia philadelphia His body was then transferred for burial via the  ,   to   on the 11:25 train.
585_philadelphia philadelphia A brief ceremony took place and he was buried with his late parents, Mr. & Mrs.  .
586_philadelphia philadelphia Fernwood Cemetery.
587_philadelphia philadelphia On     aged  died of AIDS-related complications.
588_philadelphia philadelphia Her closed-casket funeral (recommended by the funeral director due to the ravages of , which was not properly understood at the time) was held on   at a small funeral home in .
589_philadelphia philadelphia Nobody from the fashion world attended, mainly because no  knew about her death until  after she had died.
590_philadelphia philadelphia However,  ,  , 's friend and confidant, sent a Mass card when he heard the news.
591_philadelphia philadelphia Following the capitulation of  in ,  damaged the  battleship "Italia" and sank the "Roma" with Fritz-X bombs.
592_philadelphia philadelphia Attacks were also made on the USS "Savannah", causing much damage and loss of life.
593_philadelphia philadelphia HMS "Warspite" was hit by  Fritz-X, and although casualties were few, had to be towed to  for repair and was out of action for  .
594_philadelphia philadelphia The cruiser USS "" was very slightly damaged by several near misses of Fritz-X bombs.
595_philadelphia philadelphia The light cruiser HMS "" was also hit and put out of action for almost the entire war as a result.
596_philadelphia philadelphia The  storm wreked hvoc t    hd most flights on the  cncelled nd it took    dys for flights to return to norml.
597_philadelphia philadelphia The largest impact of the  storm within  was the cancellation of most of the  scheduled flights at the   .
598_philadelphia philadelphia About  people were stranded at the airport the night of the .
599_philadelphia philadelphia Passengers on about    planes sat on the tarmac for over   before gates became available to deplane them.
600_philadelphia philadelphia Operations resumed on the , but   still had to cancel    of its flights because the weather prevented crews and planes from arriving in .
601_philadelphia philadelphia About  travelers slept at the airport on the night of the .
602_philadelphia philadelphia Normal operations resumed on the .
603_philadelphia philadelphia reason for the fire's duration was the lack of national standards in fire-fighting equipment.
604_philadelphia philadelphia Fire crews and fire engines came from as far away as  and  that  (units from    were on  way, but were blocked by a train accident; y arrived   ).
605_philadelphia philadelphia The crews brought their own equipment.
606_philadelphia philadelphia Most could only watch helplessly when they discovered that their hoses could not fit 's hydrants.
607_philadelphia philadelphia High winds and freezing temperatures added to the difficulty for firefighters and further contributed to the severity of the fire.
608_philadelphia philadelphia As a result, the fire burned over  , destroying  buildings spanning  city blocks &mdash; amounting to over .
609_philadelphia philadelphia The fire began in the evening in a five-story warehouse at  Merchant Street ( called Beaver Street) at the intersection with Pearl Street between  ,  and Wall Street in the s-covered city and was fed by gale-force winds blowing from the northwest towards the  .
610_philadelphia philadelphia With temperatures as low as  and the   frozen solid, firefighters had to cut holes in the ice to get water.
611_philadelphia philadelphia Water then froze in the hoses and pumps.
612_philadelphia philadelphia Attempts to blow up buildings in its path (a technique later regarded as counterproductive) were thwarted by a lack of gunpowder in .
613_philadelphia philadelphia Firefighters coming to help from  said they could see signs of the fire there.
614_philadelphia philadelphia The morning of   saw a  of the city smoldering ruins, a forest of chimneys and walls amid a heap of ruins, although occasional buildings that were inexplicably left untouched amid the destruction.
615_philadelphia philadelphia It was said that “ best half of  city” had been burned, an area representing  acres, and    Ward of  city had just  or  dwellings untouched.
616_philadelphia philadelphia Local artist    captured this landscape in a series of paintings which he quickly had printed as a lithograph.
617_philadelphia philadelphia This was published in  and saw a broad market, as did prints by   in  and   in   (both of whom based their works on newspaper reports), in line with a growing trend of ‘disaster prints.’
618_philadelphia philadelphia The fire destroyed as many as  buildings, while displacing  families, about  individuals, from their homes.
619_philadelphia philadelphia On the hills surrounding the city could be seen piles of household belongings.
620_philadelphia philadelphia Surprisingly, only  people died.
621_philadelphia philadelphia was lawyer  , who was thought to have returned to his house to rescue a piano but lost his bearings in the heat and smoke, his body being found in the basement of a neighbor’s destroyed house.
622_philadelphia philadelphia The other body was not found until  , and is thought to be that of a Mrs. , whose family had advertised not having seen her since the fire.
623_philadelphia philadelphia Estimates of cost range from $5 to $25 million, one recent author placing it at $12,000,000, which he equated with $267 million in  dollars.
624_philadelphia philadelphia Almost n of this was recoverable, as all but  of 's insurers were bankrupted by the disaster.
625_philadelphia philadelphia "The Great Train Wreck of " occurred between   and    on   .
626_philadelphia philadelphia trains, traveling on the same track in converging directions, collided, killing between   ,  injuring over .
627_philadelphia philadelphia The incident was referred to as "The Camp Hill Disaster" in  , and "The Picnic Train Tragedy" in the city of .
628_philadelphia philadelphia It was the deadliest railroad catastrophe in the world up to that time and became  of the signature events of its era.
629_philadelphia philadelphia A method for performing a decapitation illusion, where a person's head is apparently severed and displayed on a plate next to their headless body, was described in "The Discoverie of Witchcraft" by  , published in .
630_philadelphia philadelphia A decapitation illusion involving the apparent beheading of  boys and a dove was also recorded as being performed by   in .
631_philadelphia philadelphia had agreed to fake his own death so that his wife could collect on the $10,000 policy, which she was to split with  and the shady attorney, .
632_philadelphia philadelphia The scheme, which was to take place in , was that  should set himself up as an inventor, under the name  , and then be killed and disfigured in a lab explosion.
633_philadelphia philadelphia was to find an appropriate cadaver to play the role of .
634_philadelphia philadelphia instead killed .
635_philadelphia philadelphia Forensic evidence presented at 's later trial showed that chloroform was administered "after" 's death, presumably to fake suicide.
636_philadelphia philadelphia ( had been an alcoholic and chronic depressive.)
637_philadelphia philadelphia proceeded to collect on the policy on the basis of the genuine Pitezel corpse.
638_philadelphia philadelphia He then went on to manipulate 's wife into allowing  of her  children (, , and ) to stay in his custody.
639_philadelphia philadelphia The eldest daughter and baby remained with Mrs. .
640_philadelphia philadelphia He traveled with the children through the northern   and into .
641_philadelphia philadelphia Simultaneously, he escorted Mrs.  along a parallel route, all the while using various aliases and lying to Mrs.  concerning her husband's death (claiming that  was in hiding in  ) as well as lying to her about the true whereabouts of her other children—they were often separated by only a few blocks.
642_philadelphia philadelphia A  detective,   , had tracked , finding the decomposed bodies of the   girls in  buried in the cellar of
643_philadelphia philadelphia .
644_philadelphia philadelphia He then followed  to , where  had rented a cottage.
645_philadelphia philadelphia was reported to have visited a local pharmacy to purchase the drugs which he used to kill  , and a repair shop to sharpen the knives he used to chop up the body before he burned it.
646_philadelphia philadelphia The boy's teeth and bits of bone were discovered in the home's chimney.
647_philadelphia philadelphia When  fell to the  in , several  vessels found themselves trapped between the city and the  fleet further down the  .
648_philadelphia philadelphia The  launched some  fire ships towards the , but gunfire from "Roebuck", "Camilla", and other  vessels caused the  to set their ships on fire too soon, and to abandon them.
649_philadelphia philadelphia boats were able to pull the fire ships on shore where they could do no harm.
650_philadelphia philadelphia On     had dinner with the mayor of  and attended a theatre production with his wife in .
651_philadelphia philadelphia , he was found dead at age .
652_philadelphia philadelphia Although some claim that  committed suicide in his bathtub with a self-inflicted gunshot to the head, almost every obituary, as well as the official coroner's report, stated that he died of heart disease in bed.
653_philadelphia philadelphia "The   " further reported that,   before his death,  suffered from a bout of typhoid pneumonia.
654_philadelphia philadelphia Heat waves are the most lethal type of weather phenomenon, overall.
655_philadelphia philadelphia Between  and , deaths from excessive heat in the   numbered , compared with  deaths from floods and  from hurricanes.
656_philadelphia philadelphia The average annual number of fatalities directly attributed to heat in the   is about .
657_philadelphia philadelphia The   heat wave,  of the worst in  history, led to approximately  heat-related deaths over a period of  .
658_philadelphia philadelphia has noted that in the  , the loss of human life in hot spells in  exceeds that caused by all other weather events combined, including lightning, rain, floods, hurricanes, and tornadoes.
659_philadelphia philadelphia Despite the dangers,  , professor of geography at   , found that less than half of people  and older abide by heat-emergency recommendations like drinking lots of water.
660_philadelphia philadelphia In his study of heat-wave behavior, focusing particularly on seniors in , , , and , , he found that people over  "don't consider themselves seniors."
661_philadelphia philadelphia "Heat doesn't bother me much, but I worry about my neighbors," said  of his older respondents.
662_philadelphia philadelphia According to the Agency for Health care Research and Quality, about   are hospitalized each  due to excessive heat, and those at highest risk are poor, uninsured or elderly.
663_philadelphia philadelphia More than   died as a result of the   heat wave.
664_philadelphia philadelphia Hundreds of thousands of people were left without power across the region.
665_philadelphia philadelphia In the  area alone over  people were without power at the peak of the storm, according to  and .
666_philadelphia philadelphia Many customers would remain without power until  .
667_philadelphia philadelphia The outage took place just after  had set record highs for electricity usage as a result of the extreme heat wave.
668_philadelphia philadelphia Power crews from as far away as  were called in to help restore power, after repairing  damage from   's storms.
669_philadelphia philadelphia A state of emergency was declared in  ,  as a result of the storm.
670_philadelphia philadelphia On   199 while driving to  after being inducted into the [http://www.broadcastershalloffame.com/ Broadcasters Hall of Fame] the night before  was severely injured in a traffic accident.
671_philadelphia philadelphia pulled into the path of a westbound tractor-trailer truck in  , , and his car was struck in the passenger side.
672_philadelphia philadelphia He suffered trauma to his brain, chest and lungs.
673_philadelphia philadelphia The orbital b around  of his eyes was fractured, as were  ribs and his sternum.
674_philadelphia philadelphia He spent over   in the intensive cre unit, nd ws relesed from MetroHelth Hospitl in .
675_philadelphia philadelphia He was cited for failure to stop at a stop sign.
676_philadelphia philadelphia reason for the fire's duration was the lack of national standards in fire-fighting equipment.
677_philadelphia philadelphia Although fire engines from nearby cities (such as  and , as well as units from  , , and  ) responded, many were useless because their hose couples failed to fit  hydrants.
678_philadelphia philadelphia As a result, the fire burned over  , destroying  buildings and spanning  city blocks.
679_philadelphia philadelphia Late on    the Great Fire of   broke out.
680_philadelphia philadelphia The temperature was below  (F), and gale force winds were blowing.
681_philadelphia philadelphia , some called from as far away as , were at  helpless to battle the wind driven fire due to icing lines and pumps.
682_philadelphia philadelphia The fire leveled most of the city below Canal Street.
683_philadelphia philadelphia Some merchandise was carried to churches that were thought fireproof, but several of these burned anyway.
684_philadelphia philadelphia Eventually the fire was controlled by blowing up buildings in the fire's path.
