0_miami miami On  , a moderate tropical storm was found due west of , .
1_miami miami It continued northward while continuing to strengthen.
2_miami miami The center of circulation (the center of the storm) just missed  during the afternoon of  .
3_miami miami The storm became extratropical with winds of  mph ( km/h) after slightly weakening.
4_miami miami The storm caused no reports of damages or deaths in .
5_miami miami However, the hurricane weakened to a tropical storm again on   as it moved overland, and began to curve north-northwest, restrengthening to a major hurricane by   while it was west-southwest of .
6_miami miami The hurricane made landfall over  on the evening of  .
7_miami miami The hurricane passed over southern  near Pigeon Key and   on  .
8_miami miami The hurricane continued traveling north-northwest; however, it was forced to re-curve south-southwest, as a result of a high-pressure area.
9_miami miami The hurricane weakened to a tropical storm overland, eventually becoming a tropical depression.
10_miami miami The system meandred into the   , making a final landfall in   on  .
11_miami miami In , over  houses were destroyed, and the  and  churches were completely destroyed.
12_miami miami The jail in  was nearly completely dismantled, and the prisoners were evacuated.
13_miami miami In  , the Peninsula and  railcar sheds collapsed, with the roofs blown away.
14_miami miami A two-story brick saloon was destroyed during the hurricane.
15_miami miami The  telegraph office reported street flooding in the city, and that the telegraph office was flooded.
16_miami miami Damage in  amounted to $160,000.
17_miami miami In Key West, houses and trees were knocked down.
18_miami miami In  , the tide was described as the "highest in  ," where streets were flooded throughout the city.
19_miami miami At least  passengers on the steamers "St.
20_miami miami " and "Peerless" drowned during the storm near Elliott Key.
21_miami miami The steamers "Campbell" and the "Sara" were destroyed near the Isle of , and the "Elmora" sank.
22_miami miami Telegraph lines were also down south of .
23_miami miami sustained major damage from the hurricane, with  houses destroyed, and cable operators in , , and  were unable to reach telegraph services in the city.
24_miami miami The wall of a legation of the   was blown down.
25_miami miami 's sea baths were severely damaged.
26_miami miami 's streetcar service was temporarily disrupted by the storm.
27_miami miami Trees were blown down in the parks of .
28_miami miami people were killed in the city, while in ,  people were killed, with many others missing.
29_miami miami In , the location of the  '  Infantry, tents were destroyed and there was widespread damage.
30_miami miami However, nobody was killed or injured in the city.
31_miami miami In  , tobacco crops were ruined, and  tobacco barns in the Alquízar municipality were destroyed.
32_miami miami The sugar crop in Pinar del Río Province survived well during the hurricane.
33_miami miami In the   section of , the banana crops were completely destroyed.
34_miami miami Rivers topped their banks throughout the country.
35_miami miami The  and only tropical storm of the season originated in a tropical wave, as indicated by weather maps from  .
36_miami miami The  hurricane database initially listed the system as a tropical cyclone by  , although the  reanalysis concluded that a closed low pressure system had not yet developed.
37_miami miami Maps from   display a weak low north of The ; however, other observations place the new cyclone further south.
38_miami miami Decreases in air pressure occurred throughout the islands, providing "strong indications of a disturbance".
39_miami miami The system is officially estimated to have become a tropical depression at  UTC on  , approximately  east of , .
40_miami miami It became a tropical storm     and, that same evening, storm warnings were issued from the east coast of  to as far north as ,  .
41_miami miami Forecasters began to issue advisories to weather stations in the   when the storm was detected on  .
42_miami miami Forecasters then began to issue warnings to  and  on  .
43_miami miami Evacuation reports in both  and , however, are unavailable.
44_miami miami After the storm hit , forecasters predicted the storm might hit southern and western .
45_miami miami Between   and , forecasters began to issue tropical storm warnings to the  Keys and ,  ahead of the storm due to shipping interests.
46_miami miami By  , the hurricane trekked westward as forecast.
47_miami miami At 5 PM (EST), the tropical storm warnings were then changed to hurricane warnings which extended to the  .
48_miami miami On the , however, the hurricane did not recurve north and warnings for  and later the  Keys were dropped, as the storm instead continued west-northwest.
49_miami miami Because the  hurricane was large (exact size unknown), forecasters began to issue tropical storm warnings from coastal  to the  .
50_miami miami In addition, warnings were issued in , .
51_miami miami Since it was clear that the hurricane would make landfall in , the warnings were changed for the entire  coastline.
52_miami miami After the hurricane made landfall, officials continued to issue warnings until the storm dissipated on  .
53_miami miami It crossed  on  , weakened to a tropical storm, and paralleled the north coast of .
54_miami miami This fast moving storm turned northward, passing west of ,  on  .
55_miami miami It dissipated on  .
56_miami miami This large storm spread winds of  across , , , , and , .
57_miami miami A total of  cattle were driven off of   into  .
58_miami miami Heavy rains were common across southern , with numerous locations recording  to  of rainfall within  , which set daily rainfall records.
59_miami miami The death toll in  was officially , but may have been as high as .
60_miami miami The storm surge damaged a fishing pier in   and destroyed a casino in .
61_miami miami In , much of the city was flooded, and  people were killed in drowning incidents and flying debris.
62_miami miami In  , the hurricane destroyed the Mt.
63_miami miami , which was never rebuilt.
64_miami miami In addition, the hurricane virtually destroyed much of Passage Key, part of which was later rebuilt.
65_miami miami In , several buildings of the historic Ballast Point Pavilion were destroyed by the storm.
66_miami miami A steamship capsized between  and  and there were reports of damage to several other small boats offshore.
67_miami miami Agricultural damage from the hurricane was high, with citrus crop losses totaling to $1 million ( USD).
68_miami miami Damage to fertilizer and other materials also totaled to $1 million ( USD).
69_miami miami In all, the hurricane left  people dead ( unaccounted for) and left $ million dollars ( USD, $92.4 million ( USD).
70_miami miami The  tropical cyclone of the season formed  miles ( km) southeast of ,  on  .
71_miami miami It moved northwest and crossed the eastern  as a minimal tropical storm on  .
72_miami miami On  , it passed east of  ,   and re-entered the  .
73_miami miami On  , it quickly strengthened to the equivalent of a Category  hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
74_miami miami The cyclone slowed and turned west on  , and it continued to strengthen east of the northern .
75_miami miami The cyclone strengthened to a peak intensity of  mph ( km/h) north of   on  .
76_miami miami At the time, the storm was nearly stationary.
77_miami miami Several ships reported winds of hurricane force, rough seas, and atmospheric pressure readings to  mbar ( inHg) from   through  .
78_miami miami The cyclone turned sharply north, remaining east of the  .
79_miami miami On  , it quickly weakened, and it passed close to   on  .
80_miami miami It transitioned to an extratropical cyclone, and it passed over   on  .
81_miami miami The approach of the storm led to the issuance of storm warnings from   to ,  on  .
82_miami miami Hurricane warnings extended from ,   to  .
83_miami miami In advance of the storm, radio broadcasts also advised shipping interests to remain cautious north of  .
84_miami miami No damages occurred along the coast because of the recurving storm.
85_miami miami Peak wind gusts reached  mph ( km/h) at ,  , and  people drowned along the coast.
86_miami miami Damage was minimal, though   was flooded during the storm.
87_miami miami The White Star passenger liner  was battered by the storm on   while the ship was off the Nantucket Shoals.
88_miami miami The ship arrived in      with  injured after having what was reported as a "100-foot wave" crash over  liner.
89_miami miami Late on  , a minimal tropical storm formed in the western   east-northeast of northern .
90_miami miami At the time, it was  detected when atmospheric pressures decreased over the   on  .
91_miami miami It moved slowly west-northwest, and it gradually turned north on  .
92_miami miami Late on  , it steadily intensified, and it attained hurricane intensity on  .
93_miami miami On  , it strengthened to the equivalent of a major hurricane, and it struck the Pinar del Río Province of  with sustained winds of at least  mph (5 km/h).
94_miami miami A ship reported a minimum central pressure of  mbar ( inHg) near  , suggesting that the cyclone may have been stronger.
95_miami miami On  , the hurricane turned east-northeast in response to the southward movement of a ridge, and it quickly weakened.
96_miami miami Early on  , it struck   near ,  as a Category  hurricane, and it entered the   north of  with  mph (0 km/h) winds.
97_miami miami The cyclone steadily weakened as it moved across the western  , and it dissipated west-southwest of  on  .
98_miami miami Following reanalysis released in  , the storm was re-classified as a Category  with winds of 16 mph ( km/h) and a minimum pressure of  mbar (hPa).
99_miami miami This makes   the earliest Category  recorded in the   and ties it with   for the  most intense storm ever recorded in the .
100_miami miami prior to striking , the outer circulation began producing rainfall across the state.
101_miami miami Storm warnings were issued along the east and west coastlines northward to Cedar Key and .
102_miami miami Later, hurricane warnings were issued for much of the same area, and schools in the  area were closed as the storm was expected to move ashore.
103_miami miami The hurricane  affected  when it passed west of  , where sustained winds of  mph ( km/h), along with gusts to  mph ( km/h), were reported.
104_miami miami Little damage occurred in the region, limited to downed trees; this was due to advanced warning by the   , which advised ships to remain at port and for residents to secure property.
105_miami miami Later, the hurricane moved ashore in a sparsely populated region of southwestern .
106_miami miami Damage was reported in   and   and communications were temporarily cut, although no deaths were reported.
107_miami miami Heavy rainfall was reported along its path, and  location accumulated  inches ( mm) in a   period; this established a new -day rainfall record in the state.
108_miami miami A station in  recorded  inches ( mm), and wind gusts in the area approached hurricane force.
109_miami miami The combination of winds and rain damaged 5% of the local citrus and avocado crop.
110_miami miami The rainfall flooded streets, homes, and commercial buildings in the  area, and hundreds of people were left without telephone access.
111_miami miami No impact was reported in the .
112_miami miami After exiting  into the   , the hurricane weakened greatly.
113_miami miami On   it passed a short distance west of  , , and very early on   the hurricane moved over   with winds of  mph ( km/h).
114_miami miami The cyclone weakened further as it turned eastward through the state, deteriorating to tropical storm status as it passed near or over .
115_miami miami It accelerated east-northeastward, moving over the   in  .
116_miami miami Gradually weakening, the storm interacted with an approaching cold front; late on   it transitioned into an extratropical cyclone, and shortly thereafter it was absorbed by the front.
117_miami miami During its passage through , the storm produced torrential rain over coastal cities, peaking in  at .
118_miami miami The storm caused significant property and crop damage along the    .
119_miami miami Trees, power lines, and telegraph wires were knocked down by high winds along the  .
120_miami miami Communication throughout southern  was severed as miles of telegraph wires were downed during the evening of  .
121_miami miami Structures  considered safe from storms due to their location over  ft ( m) inland sustained significant damage, probably from storm surge.
122_miami miami Beaches along the  coast also sustained considerable damages from the storm.
123_miami miami people were killed near  in  separate incidents .
124_miami miami The  occurred when a house collapsed on  men, pinning them to the ground.
125_miami miami The  incident occurred after a woman ran outside her home and was struck by a tree limb.
126_miami miami At least  workmen were killed and  others injured after the bunkhouse they were sleeping in collapsed due to high winds.
127_miami miami The facility in which they were working in also sustained $200,000 in damage from a fire ignited by the cyclone.
128_miami miami Throughout , property loses were estimated at $3 million, with $1 million in  alone.
129_miami miami Damages to the citrus industry  were also significant, with total losses exceeding $600,000.
130_miami miami Losses in  amounted to $250,000 as up to  inundated the city for    .
131_miami miami The "  tornado" was a strong tornado that struck    on   .
132_miami miami It remains the deadliest tornado to affect the south  , and it is estimated to have been the most intense tornado to strike the  area.
133_miami miami The tornado caused  deaths and produced damage totals that were estimated near $200– ( USD).
134_miami miami people were also hospitalized because of injuries.
135_miami miami The tornado remains the only tornado to cause multiple fatalities in  .
136_miami miami It is estimated that the tornado may have produced "F3" damage based on photographs taken after the passage of the thunderstorm.
137_miami miami The exact path and strength of the tornado is uncertain, since it occurred prior to modern records which began in .
138_miami miami The  tornadoes to directly receive damage ratings on the  scale occurred in .
139_miami miami The  tornado was  reported in its formative stage over the  near , where several golfers noted a funnel cloud around 1:00 p.m. Hail was reported with the parent thunderstorm prior to the sighting of the funnel cloud.
140_miami miami The slow movement of the storm was accompanied by a large amount of people outside during the  afternoon, which led to a considerable amount of reports; several reports originated from passing motorists.
141_miami miami The vortex touched down around 1:15 p.m., and the tornado was described as a "very slender" funnel that frequently lifted from the ground for brief periods.
142_miami miami The debris swirling around the rotation was compared to smoke from "burning oil."
143_miami miami Later, the slow moving tornado passed over a dairy farm, killing  person and injuring  people.
144_miami miami Losses from the farm reached $100,000.
145_miami miami The tornado eventually intensified and destroyed numerous properties northwest and north of the city of , causing at least  deaths.
146_miami miami Some residents successfully attempted to flee in automobiles, though the cars were wrecked and some were thrown for distances.
147_miami miami The tornado became rain wrapped, weakened, and dissipated over the northern portion of  , though it destroyed some power poles along the eastern half of its damage path.
148_miami miami Hail associated with the storm was measured to  inches ( cm) in diameter, damaging automobiles and residences' roofs.
149_miami miami The damage path was less than  yards ( miles) in width, and the funnel was visible for   .
150_miami miami The thunderstorm also affected the communities of Ojus,  ,  , and  .
151_miami miami In total, the tornado demolished nearly  residences.
152_miami miami In , impacts were apparently minimal.
153_miami miami The cyclone produced sustained winds up to  and pressures as low as  in the .
154_miami miami In  , the cyclone apparently did not produce tropical storm-force winds, although thunderstorms produced  of rainfall at , , on  .
155_miami miami No severe effects occurred and the storm was not mentioned in the monthly notations of the local  Weather Bureau office in .
156_miami miami However, its presence and that of the   hurricane, then of Category  intensity and in the  , caused confusion in the local press.
157_miami miami On the morning   ,   before the  hurricane struck, the " " published a front-page story on the weak tropical storm in the    and included statements by the editors that it was not anticipated to strike ;  news articles on the hurricane, which was expected to deliver “destructive winds” to the area, were not published by other local newspapers until the afternoon, leaving  residents confused as to the extent  the danger.
158_miami miami Early on  , as Hurricanes  and  remained active in the  , a weak tropical depression formed in the western   about  east-southeast of the  , .
159_miami miami Without strengning substantially,  depression moved west-northwest for    and a half, passing north of    based upon wear reports, and n curved northward.
160_miami miami On  , the depression gradually curved to the northeast, and on the afternoon of   its center made landfall southeast of the city of , .
161_miami miami The cyclone then crossed the central region of , entering the  islands in the evening.
162_miami miami Shortly thereafter, by   on   the depression intensified into a weak tropical storm with maximum sustained winds of , the strongest in its entire life span.
163_miami miami The cyclone then turned north, passing about  west of the  capital  in the afternoon.
164_miami miami The weak storm n turned abruptly to  northwest, having been trapped by a building ridge, and    , while centered north of  , it assumed a gradual curve to  southwest.
165_miami miami Late that , it degenerated back into a tropical depression and dissipated over the Straits of  on  , as the   hurricane approached from just  to the east-southeast.
166_miami miami By   on  —just   after the formation of the preceding cyclone—a new tropical storm formed in the  about  east of the island of , though it probably originated earlier and was undetected; operationally, the storm was not tracked until  .
167_miami miami Steadily moving north of due west,  cyclone quickly became a hurricane   , and over    s, while bypassing  Greater Antilles to  north, it continued to intensify to a major hurricane, with maximum sustained winds of at least , yet few ships were near  eye with which to determine its path.
168_miami miami On  afternoon of  ,  cyclone peaked at , near  upper threshold of  modern- classification Category , and shortly reafter passed just  north of  island of  , striking  at peak intensity    .
169_miami miami Continuing over the   and   on  –, the cyclone, with winds of , then struck   near ,  south of  , shortly before   on  , with its large eye passing over the  metropolitan area.
170_miami miami Swiftly crossing southernmost , the potent hurricane weakened slightly before entering the    near   in the afternoon, and its path gradually curved northwest on  .
171_miami miami Late on  , its path slowed drastically and curved west, making landfall near  , , with winds of  and a measured pressure of  in the calm eye.
172_miami miami Quickly weakening thereafter, the cyclone paralleled the coasts of  and , dissipating      over .
173_miami miami Throughout the , reports of damage were relatively scarce despite the intensity with which the storm struck the region.
174_miami miami However, numerous structures were completely destroyed.
175_miami miami Within  of the hurricane striking , newspapers reported death tolls as high as , fearing catastrophic damage in the city.
176_miami miami This number gradually decreased as persons initially feared dead were found alive.
177_miami miami According to estimates in   ,  storm was responsible for  deaths in  Souastern  ,  of which took place in  and at least  at  , where a storm surge estimated as high as  overtopped portions of a levee on  .
178_miami miami Prior to , the  death toll was long listed as .
179_miami miami Many people in , transients who knew little of hurricanes, perished after examining damage during the passage of the eye, unaware that the back end of the storm was approaching.
180_miami miami Flimsy structures built to house workers during   land boom of   were completely leveled.
181_miami miami The hurricane partially contributed to the end of the land boom, which was in decline by  .
182_miami miami In terms of monetary losses, damage from the hurricane was estimated to be as high as $125 million ($  US$).
183_miami miami Up to  structures throughout southern  were destroyed and  damaged, leaving at least  people homeless.
184_miami miami A storm surge of  occurred south of  and winds on   were recorded at  before the anemometer blew away.
185_miami miami The lowest pressure was estimated at , the  most intense in a storm to strike the  .
186_miami miami The storm also produced significant damage, rainfall up to , and a storm surge up to  in the  .
187_miami miami The entire state of  lost 35% of its grapefruit and orange crops combined, including nearly 100% losses in the  area.
188_miami miami In a study of hurricane damage statistics conducted in , it was estimated that if a storm similar to that of the  hurricane were to occur in  it would result in over $140–  in damage.
189_miami miami In all, the storm caused at least  deaths along its path accounting for the revised toll in the  since .
190_miami miami after the   hurricane struck , the  tropical storm of the season formed in the east-central  about  southwest of  in the  on  .
191_miami miami Over    , it moved north of due east and rapidly strengned, becoming a minimal hurricane by   on   and later peaking at —equivalent to a moderately strong Category  hurricane on  Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale—on  morning of  4.
192_miami miami For    thereafter, the cyclone briefly curved to the northeast before turning sharply to the east early on  .
193_miami miami Late that , the cyclone swerved precipitously to the north, making landfall on the island of   near   at peak intensity, becoming only the  of  confirmed hurricanes to strike the  since records began in , the other being Hurricane Hannah in , another landfalling Category  hurricane that struck the same island.
194_miami miami Curving northwest and then south of due west, the cyclone weakened after striking   and reverted to a minimal hurricane late on  .
195_miami miami It gradually completed a counter-clockwise loop through the western , curving due south as a tropical storm, though its cool surface temperatures and enlarged size suggest it might have been a subtropical cyclone then.
196_miami miami Just afterward, late on  , it hit   near  with sustained winds near .
197_miami miami Over    , it moved generally south-souast and slowly weakened, curving suddenly east-souast beginning on  .
198_miami miami Turning south of due east, it dissipated by   on  .
199_miami miami The   hurricane formed on  .
200_miami miami Moving west-northwest while traversing the tropical , the storm later passed near   on  .
201_miami miami By   it was battering the , impacting the  and   with winds estimated at .
202_miami miami Then, in       , it made landfall just south   between   and   as a devastating Category  hurricane on  Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
203_miami miami The storm crossed the peninsula south   , entered the   , and made another landfall near Mobile,  as a Category  hurricane on    hooking westward along coastal  and , eventually dissipating on   after moving inland over .
204_miami miami In , winds on the ground were reported around  and the pressure measured at  — though all such data is suspect.
205_miami miami Most of the costl inhbitnts hd not evcuted, prtly becuse of short wrning ( hurricne wrning ws issued just    before lndfll) nd prtly becuse the "young" city's popultion knew little bout the dnger  mjor hurricne posed.
206_miami miami A  storm surge inundated the area, causing massive property damage and some fatalities.
207_miami miami As the eye of the hurricane crossed over   and downtown , many people believed the storm had passed.
208_miami miami Some tried to leave the barrier islands, only to be swept off the bridges by the rear eyewall.
209_miami miami "The lull lasted  , and during that time the streets of the city became crowded with people," wrote  , the local weather chief.
210_miami miami "As a result, many lives were lost during the  phase of the storm."
211_miami miami Coastal regions between Mobile and ,  also suffered heavy damage from wind, rain, and storm surge, but this paled beside the news of the destruction in .
212_miami miami According to the   there were  fatalities.
213_miami miami Other estimates vary, since there were a large number of people listed as "missing".
214_miami miami Between  and  people were left homeless, mostly in the  area.
215_miami miami The damage from the storm was immense; few buildings in  or   were left intact.
216_miami miami The toll for the storm was $100 million ($  USD).
217_miami miami It is estimated that if an identical storm hit in   , with modern development and prices,  storm would have caused $140–  in damage.
218_miami miami After the hurricane, the Great Depression started in  , slowing recovery.
219_miami miami The University of , located in  , had been founded in  and opened its doors for the  time just  after the hurricane passed.
220_miami miami The University's athletic teams were nicknamed the Hurricanes in memory of this catastrophe.
221_miami miami The school's mascot is , an ibis.
222_miami miami The ibis is a small white bird that can be seen around south  and especially on the UM campus.
223_miami miami An ibis was selected to represent the Hurricanes because of folklore in which it is typically the last bird to leave before a hurricane strikes and the  to return  it's gone.
224_miami miami The "  hurricane" (or "Great  Hurricane") was a Category  hurricane that devastated  in  .
225_miami miami The storm also caused significant damage in the  , the  state of , and the .
226_miami miami The storm's enormous regional economic impact helped end   land boom of   and pushed  region on an early start into  Great Depression.
227_miami miami Points further south along the  coast, such as , received only a brush from the storm, resulting in rains and some light wind damage.
228_miami miami Flooding was also experienced at points such as  .
229_miami miami Damage estimates in  exceeded $2.5 million.
230_miami miami In the aftermath of the hurricane in coastal , it became apparent that well-constructed buildings with shutters had suffered practically no damage from winds that caused serious structural problems to lesser buildings.
231_miami miami Buildings with well-constructed frames, and those made of steel, concrete, brick, or stone were largely immune to winds, and the use of shutters prevented damage to windows and the interior of the buildings.
232_miami miami Coming on the heels of the   hurricane where a similar pattern had been noticed,  lasting result of the  storm was improved building codes.
233_miami miami Thousands of people were left homeless in ; property damage was estimated at $25 million ($).
234_miami miami It is estimated if a similar storm were to strike as of   , it would cause $18.7 billion in damages.
235_miami miami The cycl remains  of   hurricanes to strike the southern mainland of  with a central pressure below  mbar ( inHg), the others being the   hurricane and   of .
236_miami miami Coastal damage in  near the point of landfall was catastrophic.
237_miami miami , well south of the point of landfall, escaped with very little damage;  and   suffered only slight damages.
238_miami miami In  , numerous power lines and telephone wires were downed.
239_miami miami Northward, from   to , buildings suffered serious damage from the heavy winds and  ft ( m) storm surge, which was heaviest in the vicinity of  ; total coastal damages were estimated as "several " dollars.
240_miami miami In   , more than  homes were destroyed, while the   's mortar was reportedly "squeezed ...like toothpaste" between the bricks during the storm, swaying the tower  off the base.
241_miami miami Because of well-issued hurricane warnings, residents were prepared for the storm, and the number of lives lost in the coastal   area was only .
242_miami miami Inland, the hurricane wreaked much more widespread destruction along the more heavily populated coast of  .
243_miami miami Residents had been warned to evacuate  low ground earlier in  , but after  hurricane did not arrive on schedule, many thought it had missed and returned to ir homes.
244_miami miami When the worst of the storm crossed the lake—with winds measured on the ground at around  mph ( km/h)—the south-blowing wind caused a storm surge to overflow the small dike that had been built at the south end of the lake.
245_miami miami The resulting flood covered an area of hundreds of square miles with water that in some places was over  ft ( m) deep.
246_miami miami Houses were floated off of their foundations and dashed to pieces against any obstacle they encountered.
247_miami miami Most survivors and bodies were washed out into the  where many of the bodies were never found.
248_miami miami As the rear eyewall passed over the area, the flood reversed itself, breaking the dikes along the northern coast of the lake and causing a similar but smaller flood.
249_miami miami Floodwaters persisted for  , greatly impeding attempts to clean up the devastation.
250_miami miami Burial services were quickly overwhelmed, and many of the bodies were placed into mass graves.
251_miami miami Around 75% of the fatalities were migrant farm workers, making identification of both dead and missing bodies very difficult; as a result of this, the count of the dead is not very accurate.
252_miami miami The   estimated the number of fatalities as , which was taken as the official count by the    for many  (and exactly equal to the official count for Hurricane Katrina).
253_miami miami Older sources usually list  as the hurricane's total count of fatalities, including the .
254_miami miami However, in  the  death count was revised as "at least" , making the  hurricane the second-deadliest natural disaster in   history behind the  Hurricane of .
255_miami miami A mass grave at the    east of   contains the bodies of  victims of the hurricane.
256_miami miami In , a reading of  mbar ( inHg) reading was recorded as the hurricane made lfall,  wind speeds between    mph ( to  km/h) were recorded in  .
257_miami miami The hurricane spawned  tornadoes that touched down in  , , and  other towns, with the   tornado being most destructive.
258_miami miami The tornado damaged a  story hotel, a railway office building and several cottages before dissipating   after its formation.
259_miami miami In southwestern , there was damage to orange and grapefruit crops.
260_miami miami people were killed after ignoring warnings and trying to ride out the storm.
261_miami miami While moving over Saint , the storm killed  people.
262_miami miami Heavy rain was reported throughout the  .
263_miami miami The hurricane caused the drowning of  person in the , and moderate winds produced severe structural damage to the buildings in the archipelago.
264_miami miami In , the    issued storm warnings between  to , while Governor   issued a mandatory evacuation for  residents in vulnerable areas around  .
265_miami miami Damage in  was minimal, limited to minor crops, roofs, and signs.
266_miami miami In southern , the hurricane produced moderate damage of $500,000 ( USD, $  USD), including disrupted telephone and telegraph lines.
267_miami miami The hurricane produced high tides along the coast of , covering parts of   , and heavy rains in northern  caused heavy damage.
268_miami miami In , people boarded up numerous buildings, and emergency workers assisted authorities in spreading the word about the impending storm; residents in vulnerable areas evacuated to shelters on higher ground.
269_miami miami The hurricane's powerful winds destroyed several houses in , and heavy rainfall overflowed numerous rivers in low-lying districts.
270_miami miami The winds damaged and disrupted telephone and telegraph lines and injured a few people in .
271_miami miami Despite government orders for police to kill any looters, large-scale looting occurred in  after the storm.
272_miami miami looters were shot to death, and a  was injured.
273_miami miami civilians were also wounded by snipers who fired to disperse thieves.
274_miami miami Residents in southeast  boarded up for the storm while the    issued storm warnings for portions of the coastline.
275_miami miami The hurricane produced strong winds and rain in the   and extreme southern , but damage was minimal.
276_miami miami In northwest , the hurricane spawned a tornado that damaged  houses and injured .
277_miami miami Damage in the  is unknown.
278_miami miami On  , a tropical storm developed off the northeast coast of .
279_miami miami It moved slowly northward and steadily intensified, becoming a hurricane on   just west of .
280_miami miami The hurricane turned to the north-northwest and hit the  province of La Habana with winds of  mph ( km/h) on  .The hurricane passed over  and turned to the northeast and strengthened, becoming a major hurricane as it moved south of , .
281_miami miami The hurricane reached a peak intensity of  mph ( km/h) while passing through the  on  .
282_miami miami The hurricane weakened as it accelerated to the northeast, and it became extratropical on   to the south of  .
283_miami miami It paralleled the   coast, turned to the east-southeast, and lost its tropical characteristics on   over the open north  .
284_miami miami On  , the  tropical cyclone watches and warnings for  were released around 4 p.m. ( UTC); storm warnings were issued in , while hurricane warnings encompassed the coast from north of  to .
285_miami miami Additionally, storm warnings extended from north of  to .
286_miami miami Storm warnings, which were issued around 10 p.m. ( UTC), were also disseminated from Key West to Cedar Key.
287_miami miami The threat of the storm prompted the     to issue southeast storm warnings for Key West, .
288_miami miami Light rainfall from the storm was reported in .
289_miami miami Before the storm made its final landfall, the   issued northeast storm warnings from  to  ,  on  .
290_miami miami That same , a hurricane warning was also issued for .
291_miami miami The hurricane ultimately struck a sparsely-populated area of northeastern , causing several deaths and heavy damage in the country.
292_miami miami High winds downed trees and power lines, and damaged the roofs of several houses.
293_miami miami Along the beach, high tides damaged coastal structures and flooded some cars.
294_miami miami The effects extended into , and  ,  , and   were flooded due to the storm surge.
295_miami miami High tides damaged  piers in  , and there was damage to buildings along the coast.
296_miami miami The storm damaged the cotton and fruit crops in south  from high winds and rainfall.
297_miami miami Rains from the storm ended an extended drought in the  area.
298_miami miami A rare   hurricane strike in the  area, this storm began as a tropical storm near  on  .
299_miami miami Moving westward, the storm strengthened to a  Category  hurricane on   while initially threatening the   coastline.
300_miami miami The system began to turn southwest on  , however, while continuing to strengthen to its peak of , while a ship recorded a minimal pressure of  mbar.
301_miami miami The hurricane continued moving slowly south-southwest while weakening slightly, eventually making landfall near  , , as a  minimal hurricane on   with a measured pressure of  mbar at landfall.
302_miami miami The system crossed the southern end  the  peninsula shortly thereafter, eventually entering the     as a minimal hurricane near the Dry Tortugas on  .
303_miami miami The hurricane then weakened into a tropical storm while beginning a slow clockwise loop in the eastern Gulf, eventually curving back east while weakening to a depression just west of   late on  .The system dissipated just offshore on  .
304_miami miami It had killed  people and caused upwards of $5.5 million in uninflated damage.
305_miami miami The hurricane's unusual approach toward  and late arrival earned it the nickname of the Yankee Hurricane.
306_miami miami The "  hurricane season" ran from      .
307_miami miami The  season featured below average activity, but it was eventful.
308_miami miami A Category  hurricane in the  killed an estimated 2,50 people in the Greater Antilles and  .
309_miami miami A Category  storm hit central  and grazed .
310_miami miami An extratropical hurricane hit .
311_miami miami The  tropical cyclone of the season struck the   in southern  as a Category  hurricane; it remains the strongest landfalling hurricane in the   (and anywhere in the  basin).
312_miami miami A rare  hurricane also affected the —  area.
313_miami miami The "   Hurricane" was the strongest tropical cycl of the   hurricane season, and  of the most intense hurricanes to make landfall in the   in recorded history.
314_miami miami The  tropical cyclone,  hurricane, and  major hurricane of  season,    Hurricane was   of  Category  hurricanes at landfall that    endured during    ( or  being 's Hurricane Camille and 's Hurricane Andrew).
315_miami miami After forming as a weak tropical storm east of the  on  , it slowly proceeded westward and became a hurricane on  .
316_miami miami approached, hurricane warnings went up over the Keys.
317_miami miami A train was dispatched from  to evacuate the    (WPA) construction workers, consisting almost entirely of Bonus Army veterans and their families, from the ramshackle camps they were living in Windley Key and Lower Matecumbe Key.
318_miami miami The train was almost entirely swept away before reaching the camps late on  .When it finally arrived in Upper Metecumbe Key only the engine survived the winds and wall of water that swept through the area.
319_miami miami The hurricane struck the      Mday  .The storm continued north along the   , weakening before its  landfall near  ,  on  .(If information is found on diameter please write.)
320_miami miami The     and other state and federal agencies organized evacuation and relief efforts.
321_miami miami Boats and airplanes carried injured survivors to .
322_miami miami The railroad was never rebuilt, but temporary bridges and ferry landings were under construction as soon as materials arrived.
323_miami miami Within   yers  rodwy (Overses Highwy) linked the Keys to the minlnd.
324_miami miami The storm caused wind and flood damage along the  panhandle and into .
325_miami miami The main transportation route linking the Keys to mainland  was  railroad line, the  Overseas Railroad portion of the    .
326_miami miami A 10-car evacuation train, sent from Homestead, was washed off the track by the storm surge and high winds on Upper Matecumbe Key.
327_miami miami Only the locomotive remained on the rails, and was barged back to    .
328_miami miami The    estimated  deaths from the hurricane.
329_miami miami Bodies were recovered as far away as  and   on the southwest tip of the  mainland.
330_miami miami The "Yankee Hurricane of " was a rare Category  hurricane that affected the  and   in .
331_miami miami It remains the only tropical cyclone to affect  from the northeast in .
332_miami miami The  tropical cyclone and  hurricane of the   hurricane season, it developed  miles ( km) east of .
333_miami miami It strengthened to a hurricane on  , initially posing a threat to the .
334_miami miami Subsequently, the cyclone turned southwest.
335_miami miami It attained its peak intensity on  , and it made landfall near   on  .The hurricane's unusual approach toward  and late arrival earned it the nickname of the Yankee Hurricane.
336_miami miami The cyclone produced winds of  mph ( km/h) on  .
337_miami miami The duration of hurricane force winds ranged from –  in the  , and  sponge fishing vessels were lost due to the hurricane.
338_miami miami The cyclone caused  deaths in the islands.
339_miami miami In  , winds unroofed several homes, and canals overflowed.
340_miami miami In  , the hurricane dismantled communication lines, and "telegraph companies relayed" messages via  and .
341_miami miami High waves flooded  .
342_miami miami feet ( m) of the   causeway was eroded, and police halted traffic between   and the mainland.
343_miami miami The death toll in  was low because of well executed warnings and advisories.
344_miami miami Winds shattered numerous plate glass windows in 's business district, while signs, roofing materials, and vegetation littered streets.
345_miami miami homes lost their roofs in  and , and the oceanfront boardwalk was destroyed.
346_miami miami Precipitation damaged equipment at the   , where many windows were broken.
347_miami miami Construction standards were improved in the aftermath of the  Okeechobee Hurricane, reducing damages in subsequent storms.
348_miami miami people were treated for injuries at local hospitals.
349_miami miami was flooded by  feet ( mm) of water.
350_miami miami The hurricane produced light rainfall in  that peaked at  inches ( mm).
351_miami miami deaths were reported in .
352_miami miami Total damages in  reached $5,500,000 in the –  area.
353_miami miami Initially, the cyclone moved westward.
354_miami miami On  , the storm strengthened to a Category  hurricane, and it attained peak winds of  mph (30 km/h).
355_miami miami The tropical cyclone temporarily threatened the .
356_miami miami On  , the hurricane reached its closest approach to  ; the center was located less than  miles (30 km/h) off the coast.
357_miami miami The cyclone's wind field remained narrow, and  recorded peak gusts of  mph ( km/h).
358_miami miami The cyclone turned south, under the influence of northerly winds from a high pressure system.
359_miami miami On  , a ship reported a minimum pressure of  mbar ( inHg) north of the  .
360_miami miami However, this value remains unofficial, pending reanalysis.
361_miami miami On  , the hurricane, with maximum sustained winds of  mph ( km/h), made landfall north of   near the  location of  , .
362_miami miami The hurricane's lowest central pressure in  was recorded at  mbar ( inHg) in , .
363_miami miami Shops and residences were "boarded up" in .
364_miami miami Precautionary hurricane signals were hoisted along the  east coast from  to , and the center was expected to make landfall between  and   .
365_miami miami Later, hurricane warnings were issued from   to .
366_miami miami men were evacuated from the   area in the upper  .
367_miami miami Workers in the   were transported to concentration points in  and Homestead.
368_miami miami Maritime interests in the    were also warned, though the cyclone's remnants remained f the west coast  .
369_miami miami On  , a tropical storm made landfall on the  coast of .
370_miami miami It moved northeastward across  , and entered the western   on  .
371_miami miami The storm quickly re-organized, and again developed into a tropical storm on  .
372_miami miami It moved north-northeastward, resulting in light winds as it paralleled the eastern coasts of  and the  .
373_miami miami After reaching the    with peak winds  , the storm turned to the northeast, then to the east.
374_miami miami On  , the tropical storm made landfall about  to the south of  , , and after crossing the state it passed over  before entering the  .
375_miami miami It weakened as it accelerated northeastward through the , and on   the system dissipated to the north of .
376_miami miami While crossing  , the storm produced heavy rainfall.
377_miami miami In southern , winds from the storm ranged from  to a peak of  in .
378_miami miami The srm produced heavy rainfall in southern , ranging from    inches (  30 mm).
379_miami miami The rainfall caused flooding of highways and lowlands, drowned several livestock, and some damage.
380_miami miami The storm caused  indirect deaths when a   airplane crashed in   while in search of small boats.
381_miami miami No deaths were reported in the region, although minor damage was inflicted on communication lines and homes and several injuries were reported.
382_miami miami Several communities lost electricity.
383_miami miami Some hospitals were left without power, forcing the delivery of  babies by candlelight.
384_miami miami The storm injured  people in the  area, including  firefighters who were injured "as they fought a blaze fanned by the high winds" of the hurricane.
385_miami miami As the hurricane tracked inland, it passed over the , producing winds of .
386_miami miami Storm surge in the region triggered foot-deep flooding of some streets in local towns.
387_miami miami Docks and fishing equipment suffered extensive damage in the region.
388_miami miami As the hurricane passed offshore, winds reached  near  .
389_miami miami The storm also grounded a fishing schooner from  off the coast of  , .
390_miami miami Although no  was injured, members of the schor crew were detained by immigration authorities.
391_miami miami On making landfall, the storm generated high winds at the Fowey Rocks Light, although they were below hurricane force.
392_miami miami A peak wind gust of  was reported at Dinner Key with sustained winds up to .
393_miami miami Unusually little rain fell in association with the storm;  of precipitation was reported in , while locations closer to the center of the cyclone received less than .
394_miami miami The light rainfall was evident throughout southeastern , except for the  , where thunderstorms enhanced the precipitation.
395_miami miami This aspect of the storm was considered highly unusual, as most tropical cyclones are characterized by heavy rainfall.
396_miami miami According to  study, the unusual precipitation patterns can be attributed to  of  possible conditions: "the air might have been too dry", or "the horizontal convergence of air might have been insufficient to produce a large enough transport of moisture upwards".
397_miami miami The intense winds blew salt water several miles inland; due to the lack of rainfall, the salt burned vegetation throughout the region.
398_miami miami The high winds brought down trees and utility poles and shattered some windows in  .
399_miami miami Local chapters of the    organized first-aid stations and shelters; transportation was provided to those who were unable to reach the shelters.
400_miami miami In advance of the storm,     suspended flights departing from and arriving at  and redirected them to , .
401_miami miami The    also prepared its bases in the   for the arrival of the storm by securing boats to piers and canceling all shore leaves, while the      moved its planes from   to a safer location inland.
402_miami miami The state of  stockpiled food for those affected by the storm, establishing depots in   , , and  , and the Governor of ,  , ordered state agencies to prepare for relief work.
403_miami miami A detachment of officers from the    was sent to  and patrolled along highways to provide gasoline to motorists evacuating the storm.
404_miami miami The state also opened all of the school buildings in   as emergency shelters.
405_miami miami During   before  storm's arrival in ,  Wear  issued  tropical cyclone-related advisories.
406_miami miami Extensive preparations that resulted in a low loss of life and property were attributed to the warnings.
407_miami miami In southern , residents boarded up homes and businesses, and sought shelter in large structures.
408_miami miami Hurricane parties took place in bars and hotel rooms, while some residents sat in hotel lobbies, listening to radio broadcasts.
409_miami miami In , stores sold out of various essentials—including bread and butter—as people prepared for the storm.
410_miami miami Evacuations were recommended from Homestead to  , and    planes dropped warnings to boats near the  coast.
411_miami miami The    also evacuated  of its workers from West Summerland Key to Key West.
412_miami miami On  , the  indications of a tropical system were observed  to the north of the  .
413_miami miami observations confirmed the presence of a circulation center and on   the storm tracked through the  and passed near .
414_miami miami At the time, the storm was found to be a compact, well-developed hurricane.
415_miami miami The hurricane's lowest recorded barometric pressure of  mb was reported on Cat Island.
416_miami miami The storm moved west-northwestward and attained peak winds of  on  ; that same , it made landfall  south of , .
417_miami miami Maintaining a small size, the hurricane moved through the , passing between   and  .
418_miami miami Along the southern shore of  , winds gusted to ; barometric pressure there fell to  mb.
419_miami miami warnings and advisories were issued by     during    period when  storm impacted  western  islands and  .
420_miami miami In , watches and warnings were broadcast via microphones at  to  intervals when the hurricane threatened the state.
421_miami miami The   reported  people were sheltered during the storm, which accounted for a small portion of those whom evacuated.
422_miami miami small vessels were secured in  , while operational  and  planes were transferred from  to safer airfields.
423_miami miami In , communications were severed on the Isles of , though  received ample warnings and was well prepared for the storm.
424_miami miami A hurricane was  detected on  , northeast of the Lesser Antilles.
425_miami miami It likely developed from a tropical wave   before.
426_miami miami It moved west-northwestward, and steadily intensified to a  major hurricane on the , northeast of the .
427_miami miami Around this time, the     designated this storm "The Great Atlantic " to emphasize its intensity and size, which appears to be the  time a name was designated by the office which evolved into the National  Center.
428_miami miami The hurricane turned northward and hit the   later that .
429_miami miami Although hurricane warnings were initially issued for the   and  through  , the cyclone passed north of the Lesser Antilles.
430_miami miami In advance of the storm, aircraft were evacuated from the    in , .
431_miami miami In total, hundreds of planes left vulnerable locations.
432_miami miami Residents were advised to heed advisories in , the , and northern .
433_miami miami On  , hurricane force winds were expected to affect areas from  ,  through the  , and hurricane warnings were accordingly released for this region.
434_miami miami Storm warnings also extended north to  and .
435_miami miami Military personnel sought shelter at  Race Track, while residents boarded homes and evacuated from coastal areas to public structures.
436_miami miami Boats were utilized to transport people from barrier islands, and small watercraft were secured along the  .
437_miami miami In south , peak gusts were estimated near  mph ( km/h) at the    in Homestead.
438_miami miami The strong winds destroyed  residences across the state, while  homes received damages.
439_miami miami The hurricane was the strongest tropical cyclone to strike   until Hurricane  in .
440_miami miami In , gusts reached  mph ( km/h), and damages were minimal compared to communities in southern  .
441_miami miami people were injured at the Army Air Base when a fire ignited during the storm, affecting  hangars and destroying  blimps,  planes, and  automobiles.
442_miami miami An additional fire also destroyed a furniture factory and a tile manufacturing plant in the northwestern portion of downtown .
443_miami miami More than    workers were activated in response to the cyclone.
444_miami miami In the  , hundreds of residences were damaged.
445_miami miami people died across the state.
446_miami miami Hurricane warnings were issued for coastal areas of , including the  Keys and Panhandle.
447_miami miami Storm advisories were also posted along the state's  coast, and portions of the  .
448_miami miami They were discontinued on  , although small craft warnings remained in place along the  .
449_miami miami canceled flights between  and , , and also to  and , .
450_miami miami Small navy vessels were secured, while larger ships rode out the storm at sea.
451_miami miami In the Key West neighborhood of  ,  residents evacuated their homes.
452_miami miami Emergency shelters in the area were opened, and local business slowed considerably with the exception of a few grocery stores selling emergency supplies.
453_miami miami Schools closed as windows were boarded up on houses and businesses.
454_miami miami Throughout its course, the hurricane was heavily observed and investigated, resulting in an abundance of information that provided a more comprehensive understanding of a tropical cyclone's vertical structure.
455_miami miami It was profiled in detail in a "Monthly Weather Review" article by   , titled "A Note on the Movement and Structure of the  Hurricane of  ".
456_miami miami This storm was named  by the   office in , which worked in conjunction with the military at that time.
457_miami miami This powerful hurricane hit near  , , on  .
458_miami miami It moved across the    as a weakened hurricane, but restrengthened before striking eastern  on   as a Category  hurricane.
459_miami miami The hurricane caused $110 million in damage ( dollars) and  casualties.
460_miami miami Although it was very powerful at its  landfall, its destruction was less severe than that of previous tropical cyclones in  .
461_miami miami An airport in south  recorded peak winds of  mph ( km/h).
462_miami miami The hurricane dropped  (– cm) inches of rain across central and southern part of the state, including in  where the storm produced  inches ( cm) in a   period and over  inches ( cm) in a   period.
463_miami miami The flooding rains left many neighborhoods in up to  feet of water due to a  wet , and left over    residents homeless.
464_miami miami The flooding also closed   from  to  , as well as a highway to  .
465_miami miami The hurricane spawned a tornado in both Coral Gables and ,  of which destroyed  warehouses.
466_miami miami In all, the hurricane caused $27.5 million dollars ( USD, $260 million 2005 USD) in damage in .
467_miami miami Following the passage of the hurricane,  mayor   declared a state of emergency and restricted access to the city.
468_miami miami In , many residents had to use boats and rafts to survey damage and look for survivors, due to the flooding.
469_miami miami Winds in  peaked at  mph ( km/h) in , where the storm caused $20 million dollars ( USD, $189 million 2005 USD) in damage.
470_miami miami Elsewhere in , the storm caused $500,000 ( USD, $4.7 million 2005 USD) in damage, mainly due to a tornado that touched down near .
471_miami miami Tides  feet above normal were reported from  to  .
472_miami miami In ,  , the high tides caused minor beach erosion and isolated street flooding, and  person was killed there by a falling tree.
473_miami miami In  , the high tides caused minor flooding.
474_miami miami In   , the origins of Hurricane  were detected north of  in the Intertropical Convergence Zone.
475_miami miami On   at  UTC, a minimal tropical storm was estimated to have formed with maximum sustained winds near ; thereafter it moved north by west.
476_miami miami By  , the storm accelerated and began strengthening steadily, reaching a peak intensity of  before striking land just before  UTC on   south of    in    , .
477_miami miami The center of the storm then began turning to the northeast before passing near  , which recorded wind gusts of up to .
478_miami miami after leaving northern , the storm rapidly became a hurricane, equivalent to Category  on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
479_miami miami Just after   on  , the hurricane struck  just north of  , and just before   it left the  metropolitan area near  —the same area that had been hit by the    hurricane   previous—with winds of .
480_miami miami Unusually, the hurricane strengthened over land as it passed over  , a phenomenon also observed in Tropical Storm Fay (), which struck the same region.
481_miami miami By  , the    issued hurricane warnings from the  metropolitan area to  .
482_miami miami Upon striking southernmost , the cyclone produced insignificant wind damage of $75,000 ( USD), largely due to its having struck an area hit by the more powerful    hurricane in .
483_miami miami Peak winds in  were estimated to have reached  around  , the area where the storm made landfall,  though these were not officially accepted as the maximum sustained winds.
484_miami miami At the  , wind instruments reported readings up to  before failing due to “friction from lack of oil”; higher winds were believed to have occurred thereafter.
485_miami miami Elsewhere in  , the      at   port reported sustained winds of ,  while the    in downtown  recorded peak winds of .
486_miami miami Between the  stations, each  apart, the difference in atmospheric pressure was  mb ( inHg), but the lowest pressure was not below 995. mb (29.9 inHg).
487_miami miami As the storm center passed just north of  , the city at   on   reported a pressure of  mb ( inHg) that was “still falling” at the time.
488_miami miami The eye of the storm by   pssed over the   , which reported clm winds for  —the  time in  th   in which the eye of  hurrice pssed over or ner the lighthouse, the other hving occurred on  .
489_miami miami Region-wide, the hurricane produced significant rainfall totals of  to —and, in the interior, locally as high as —causing severe flooding.
490_miami miami The highest measured rainfall total in   in   was  in northeastern  .
491_miami miami At a weather observation site in ,  of rain fell in as little as  .
492_miami miami In all, as much as  fell in just ¼  in the city; due to saturated ground preceding the arrival of the storm, much of the area flooded easily, leaving parts of the city submerged under  of water.
493_miami miami Similarly, “waist deep” depths were reported in nearby  , , rural western sections of  , and many other cities of the  metropolitan area.
494_miami miami In  , homes in the historic   district that housed    soldiers were flooded in up to  of water.
495_miami miami In the wake of the flooding in his city,   Mayor   blocked access from surrounding cities.
496_miami miami In the  area, the   and the   overflowed,  as did the    again in  , which had  done so during the  hurricane.
497_miami miami During the storm, up to  of rain in   were reported to have fallen on the city of  , and sections of   were under  of water.
498_miami miami On the  , floodwaters extended all the way across the state from the  area to as far west as   in  .
499_miami miami Due to the floods, septic tanks overflowed, leaving canal banks and patches of ground isolated by floodwaters; reportedly,  Route , locally called Federal Highway and built largely upon the  coastal ridge—the highest elevation in  —was flooded out between  and  .
500_miami miami Having been isolated by the floods, deer, rattlesnakes, and other wildlife, along with horses and cattle, sought shelter upon the remaining exposed ground, particularly levee banks.
501_miami miami In  , the flooding from the  and  hurricanes led to the creation in  of what is  the     , which under a  plan was entrusted with the task of preventing a recurrence of significant flooding by forming an improved flood-control system to modulate the water table and by providing suitable water levels with which to water crops, prevent saltwater intrusion, and support recreational opportunities as well as the growing   communities.
502_miami miami Large pumping systems were constructed, along with numerous new levees and canals, to mitigate  risk of large-scale flooding, yet population growth since    is believed to have reduced  extent of vacant lands needed for effective drainage, reby increasing  risk of damage during a flood similar to that of .
503_miami miami In his  book "Beyond the  Generation," former EDD Chief Engineer   voiced his concerns about large-scale development near the levees, which separate the  water conservation areas from the  metropolitan area.
504_miami miami wrote, “It is my opinion...that anytime that area gets a foot or more of rainfall overnight, the shades of ’s flood will be with them again.”
505_miami miami Following the phonetic alphabet from   , the    office in , , which then worked in conjunction with the military, named the storm "King," though such names were apparently informal and did not appear in public advisories until , when the   storm to be so designated was Hurricane Fox.
506_miami miami Hurricane  was  monitored as an area of low pressure over    on   .
507_miami miami Steadily tracking westward, the system was quickly classified as a depression before moving into the   near , , on  .Shortly thereafter, weather agencies lost track of the system over water due to a lack of ships in the region.
508_miami miami However, later analysis determined that the cyclone obtained tropical storm status, with maximum sustained winds of  mph ( km/h), during the afternoon of  .The storm quickly intensified as it tracked nearly due west, attaining winds of  mph ( km/h), equivalent to a Category  hurricane on the – Hurricane Scale, roughly 8  after being classified a tropical storm.
509_miami miami The hurricane maintained this intensity for   , taking a southwest turn on          , when  steamship "Arakaka" provided confirmation of its existence.
510_miami miami Beginning then, the cyclone began to intensify more rapidly as its forward speed increased; between   and , reconnaissance missions by the    began monitoring the hurricane.
511_miami miami At  UTC on  , a navy aircraft  penetrated the storm; in    , the storm strengthened, with another mission registering a barometric pressure of  mb ( inHg), a drop of  mb in  .
512_miami miami On  , another airplane at  UTC confirmed that the storm had deepened further to  mb ( inHg) and its eye shrunk to ;  by that time the hurricane had reached Category  intensity.
513_miami miami The same mission reported a double eyewall,  a feature replaced by a large eye by the time the storm hit the  and .
514_miami miami , the storm attained the minimum pressure,  mb ( inHg), recorded by aircraft reconnaissance during its life span, yet continued to intensify thereafter.
515_miami miami Early on  , as its movement slowed greatly and turned westward near the northern , it attained its peak intensity of 0 mph ( km/h).
516_miami miami Following the phonetic alphabet from   ,  the    office in , , which then worked in conjunction with the military, named the storm , though such names were apparently informal and did not appear in public advisories until , when the   storm to be so designated was Hurricane Fox.
517_miami miami While retaining its intensity, the storm, its northwesterly course having been blocked by a ridge of high pressure, crossed the northern portion of the  , where on Elbow Cay the   weather station simultaneously estimated winds of  mph ( km/h) and recorded  mb ( inHg)  as the center passed just to the north.
518_miami miami on  , it made landfall near  , , as a strong Category  hurricane with maximum sustained winds near  mph ( km/h)—only  or hurricanes, all Category  ( 193   hurricane, , and ), are estimated to have had higher maximum sustained winds upon striking   .
519_miami miami To this date, the hurricane remains the only major hurricane to have struck  , , at that strength, and the only  to pass directly over the county seat of  ,  though the   hurricane and Hurricane King caused significant damage in the county.
520_miami miami UTC, the cyclone produced peak gusts of  mph ( km/h) and sustained winds of  mph ( km/h) at    near  , ; the gust was the highest measured wind speed recorded in the state of  until , when   produced a gust of  at .
521_miami miami The station also reported a pressure of  mb ( inHg), the lowest during the passage of the storm over , though its accuracy is uncertain as  , in the eye to the south, reported higher pressures, while winds at the lighthouse remained at hurricane force.
522_miami miami The hurricane moved slowly inland near  mph ( km/h), and it diminished to a Category  hurricane over the .
523_miami miami Early on  , the cyclone entered the    near , producing wind gusts   mph ( km/h) at   Light near  .
524_miami miami On  , concerns about disastrous flooding were heightened by memories of the   hurricane on the south shore and of the   hurricane at  .
525_miami miami During the storm, tides peaked at  on the north shore of the lake  and  on the south shore at  and  , nearly overrunning the    that surrounded the lake.
526_miami miami However, due to revamped improvements in the dike, the storm caused only minor damage, and the dike prevented a repeat of the flooding of  and , in which over  people drowned.
527_miami miami Nevertheless, floodwaters in the  region resulted in significant losses to cattle, and hundreds of small block homes in the agricultural districts were blown off their foundations.
528_miami miami Much of the marshy country was waterlogged during and after the storm.
529_miami miami On the east coast of , many cities experienced significant flooding; tides of up to  affected  and   counties, washing out large portions of State Highway A1A between   and  , as well as between    and .
530_miami miami High tides carved a channel  deep and rendered a nearby road impassable while nearly reopening   , which had silted over and never re-emerged since the   hurricane.
531_miami miami At   many of the  resort hotels as well as homes and apartments were battered by waves.
532_miami miami There, a three-to-four-ft-deep (0.9-to-1-m) layer of sand covered many oceanfront grounds, and nearby neighborhoods on the  , like  , were flooded to a depth of several feet.
533_miami miami As it crossed   at about , the storm dropped a prodigious amount of rain over a broad area, peaking at  at   .
534_miami miami In , the city manager claimed  of city streets were flooded out, while in   half the homes were flooded.
535_miami miami The town of , having lost  "citrus" trees to floodwaters in preceding ,  suffered devastating losses to groves and vegetable beds.
536_miami miami On the evening of  , the    expected the storm to recurve, precipitating a possible landfall between  , , and , .
537_miami miami As a precautionary measure, small watercraft between , , and  ,  , were advised to remain in port.
538_miami miami Early on  , the forecast was revised, and hurricane warnings were issued for the  east coast from  to  , later to be expanded to .
539_miami miami As the hurricane approached Northern commercial flights were grounded, and  National Guard troops were readied for mobilization if “deemed necessary” by  Governor  .
540_miami miami persons in   moved into shelters established by the  , while up to  people evacuated the flood-prone   region.
541_miami miami In all, more than  people statewide moved into shelters established by the  .
542_miami miami Military aircraft were flown to safer locations, in some cases   or more in advance.
543_miami miami Hotels in the threatened area filled quickly due to fears of a disaster similar to the  Okeechobee hurricane; at  and Cocoa no vacant hotels were left for evacuees.
544_miami miami During the storm, the ,   ( ), and Venetian Causeways in  were closed to traffic.
545_miami miami At   alone,  people sheltered in  official shelters during the storm.
546_miami miami , the site of the strongest winds, received significant damage from the cyclone, and  fatalities occurred on the island.
547_miami miami In , the hurricane produced heavy rains and floods in the  region.
548_miami miami tornadoes also occurred in the state; however, no deaths were confirmed.
549_miami miami The impacts of Hurricane , occurring   prior to the storm, reduced the destruction from the  cyclone.
550_miami miami The cyclone also caused extensive destruction on .
551_miami miami A weak tropical storm, with winds of  mph ( km/h), formed  miles ( km) east-northeast of   a Dios, , on  .
552_miami miami The cyclone, moving northwest, strengned to a hurricane on   .
553_miami miami The system was noted as an organized tropical cyclone at 10:45 a.m.
554_miami miami ( UTC) on the same date.
555_miami miami On  , the hurricane intensified and attained winds of at least  mph (19 km/h).
556_miami miami Subsequently, the hurricane, reaching a peak intensity of  mph ( km/h), made landfall east of  in the    , .
557_miami miami The center passed west of , where winds were measured near  mph ( km/h).
558_miami miami Later, the hurricane made landfall near Marathon on the evening of the same date.
559_miami miami Maximum sustained winds were near  mph ( km/h), and Sombrero Key reported a pressure of  mbar ( inHg).
560_miami miami A lull, indicating the passage of the eye, persisted for   at Marathon and the   .
561_miami miami Maximum winds were estimated near  mph ( km/h) in the  .
562_miami miami The hurricane passed over  around 7 p.m. ( UTC); sustained winds of  mph ( km/h) were documented at the   's airport station, and the lowest pressure was  mbar ( inHg).
563_miami miami The duration of the center was   at the station; the lull lasted for a longer period at the   , but the pressure did not drop below  mbar ( inHg).
564_miami miami A total of  bulletins were released by the    office.
565_miami miami In ,  deaths were attributed to the tropical cyclone.
566_miami miami Homes and cattle were swept away by flash flooding.
567_miami miami injuries were reported, and damages reached $6,000,000 ( USD).
568_miami miami The hurricane, reminiscent of Hurricane Floyd in , produced minimal damage in the  .
569_miami miami In southern , the cyclone produced a storm surge of  feet ( m) on  .
570_miami miami Rainfall exceeded  inches (
571_miami miami mm) at the  airport station, and  streets were flooded by deep water.
572_miami miami Water resembled flooding streams in the streets of Homestead,  , , and sections of  .
573_miami miami In , the city mayor reported water depths of  feet ( m) in the streets.
574_miami miami The city had been plagued by floods in  .
575_miami miami A  bridge, located near the  , was damaged by a loose barge during the hurricane.
576_miami miami Planes were overturned and damaged by strong winds at the  .
577_miami miami The hurricane produced  tornadoes prior to landfall.
578_miami miami tornado, touching down around 4 p.m., demolished  homes south of  .
579_miami miami A total of  residences were damaged or destroyed.
580_miami miami tornado struck homes west of  .
581_miami miami building, containing  stories, lost its roof, while  homes incurred damage.
582_miami miami Barns were damaged or destroyed.
583_miami miami Losses reached $15,000 ( USD).
584_miami miami Another tornado destroyed  homes in the city of , where damages reached $100,000 ( USD).
585_miami miami The tornado flipped cars and inflicted extensive damage at the Royal Palm dairy farm.
586_miami miami All of the tornadoes attained the equivalence of F2 intensity on the modern  scale.
587_miami miami The hurricane caused no fatalities across the state, and the recent passage of Hurricane , which had resulted in pre-existing damage, mitigated the destruction from the  hurricane.
588_miami miami Total losses in  reached $5,500,000; more than one-half of the costs were attributed to property damage.
589_miami miami The lack of fatalities was unusual in a densely populated region.
590_miami miami The "  hurricane" was  of the strongest tropical cycls of the   hurricane season.
591_miami miami The hurricane, the  most intense storm of the season, produced winds of  mph ( km/h) in the ,  region.
592_miami miami The  tropical storm,  hurricane, and the  major hurricane of the season, it developed east-northeast of   a Dios, .
593_miami miami Subsequently, it intensified over the western  , attained winds of hurricane strength, and made landfall on western .
594_miami miami The cyclone, which was the equivalence of a Category  hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale, crossed the island and struck the   as a major hurricane.
595_miami miami The center passed over , departed near  , and crossed the   south of .
596_miami miami In , the hurricane produced hurricane force gusts from   to Saint Augustine.
597_miami miami The majority of the state experienced sustained winds of at least  mph ( km/h).
598_miami miami The storm produced the most severe conditions over the   region since , and peak gusts were measured from  ( km/h) to  mph ( km/h) near the lake.
599_miami miami The minimum central pressure near   was  mbar ( inHg) at Canal Point; pressures were below  mbar ( inHg) as far north as  , which is located in the   of the state.
600_miami miami On  , the northern  were advised to initiate hurricane precautions, and a hurricane warning was issued for the islands.
601_miami miami were encouraged to closely monitor the progress of the storm.
602_miami miami On  , hurricane warnings were released from  to  ; officials decided to cancel proposed evacuations of the   region, as the presence of the    was expected to prevent flooding.
603_miami miami On the southeast coast of , unofficial wind gusts reached  mph ( km/h) at   and  mph ( km/h) at , respectively.
604_miami miami reported sustained winds of  mph ( km/h) and peak gusts of  mph ( km/h).
605_miami miami Tides reached  feet ( in) above normal at   and , but the    remained intact, protecting the area from severe flooding.
606_miami miami Minimal erosion occurred in some locales.
607_miami miami , Jupiter, and  experienced the most severe damage from the storm in south ; hundreds of homes, apartment buildings, stores, and warehouse buildings lost roofs and windows.
608_miami miami Interior furnishings were blown through broken glass into the streets.
609_miami miami Severe damage was received by 40 percent of 's residences and commercial structures, and 90 percent required repairs.
610_miami miami A church, baseball park, and ice company was destroyed in the area's black neighborhoods.
611_miami miami Many flimsy buildings were destroyed in the neighborhoods.
612_miami miami In   , cars were overturned in the interior of a dealership as winds shattered windows.
613_miami miami Sand and debris covered the island of  .
614_miami miami Heavy rainfall resulted in flooding, and water entered many homes in   and  counties.
615_miami miami Snakes and mosquitoes infested many residences.
616_miami miami Precipitation totals of , , and  were measured at  , , and   , respectively.
617_miami miami received less damage, although trees and power lines were knocked down.
618_miami miami Winds reached  mph ( km/h) in the city.
619_miami miami Radio towers were toppled in   and  , and  portions of the Jensen causeway near 's Point were ripped away.
620_miami miami A hangar and beacon was destroyed at the local airport in  .
621_miami miami people were homeless in .
622_miami miami A water mark of  feet ( in) was recorded on the    near .
623_miami miami After reaching the southwestern  , King turned northward and later northwestward, striking downtown ,  on   with winds of  mph ( km/h).
624_miami miami It was the most severe hurricane to impact the city since the   hurricane.
625_miami miami Across , damage totaled $27.75 million ( USD, $  USD), of which $15 million ( USD, $  USD) was in the  metropolitan area.
626_miami miami A preliminary survey indicated there were  houses damaged in the region, with an additional  destroyed.
627_miami miami Along its path through the state, strong winds were observed around  , with a  mph ( km/h) gust in .
628_miami miami Overall, there were  deaths in the state.
629_miami miami Early on  , King weakened to tropical storm status over north-central , and later that  it dissipated over western .
630_miami miami There was  additional death in .
631_miami miami The tropical cyclones of the season produced a total of  fatalities and $38.5 million in property damage ( USD, $  USD).
632_miami miami The  officially named  hurricane was Hurricane Able, which formed on  , brushed the   coastline, and later moved across southeastern .
633_miami miami The strongest hurricane of the season, Hurricane Dog reached the equivalent of a Category  hurricane on the  scale, and caused extensive damage to the  .
634_miami miami major hurricanes affected : Easy produced the largest  rainfall total recorded in the  , while King struck downtown  and caused $27.75 million ( USD, $  USD) of damage.
635_miami miami The last storm of  , Hurricane Love, dissipated on   after striking    and causing minimal damage.
636_miami miami On  , a tropical depression formed in the western     after the end of the hurricane season.
637_miami miami It moved quickly north-northwestward and intensified into a tropical storm, followed by a northeast turn after brushing the  .
638_miami miami Early on  , the storm struck  ,  and quickly crossed the state.
639_miami miami The     office recorded a wind gust of  mph ( km/h) during its passage.
640_miami miami The winds damaged windows and power lines, catching residents and tourists off-guard.
641_miami miami The cyclone also dropped – inches (– mm) of precipitation along its path, causing crop damage in  .
642_miami miami Residents and tourists in southern  were unprepared for the unusual off-season storm.
643_miami miami Winds of up to  mph ( km/h) spread across the area, causing damage to windows and power lines.
644_miami miami The storm dropped – inches (– mm) of precipitation along its path; the combination of unseasonable rainfall and winds resulted in crop damage in  .
645_miami miami After the storm moved into the western , the     issued storm warnings for the   coastline from  to  ; the region was warned to prepare for strong winds.
646_miami miami The agency also issued a small craft advisory southward through ,  .
647_miami miami Offshore, the storm produced winds of up to  mph ( km/h), as well as waves up to  feet ( m) in height.
648_miami miami The combination of the winds and rough waves drove a freighter ashore along   in the Outer Banks, after the engine was damaged when water entered the fuel line.
649_miami miami The  person crew initially planned to evacuate, but they later decided to stay on the freighter as the    were deployed to assist.
650_miami miami The seas damaged a portion of the ship, but the entire crew was rescued without any injuries.
651_miami miami The storm later brushed  , bringing rain, fog, warmer temperatures, and gusty winds.
652_miami miami The combination resulted in downed power poles and tree limbs, leaving  houses without electricity.
653_miami miami The storm was described as a "freak", forming    after the end of the hurricane season.
654_miami miami The chief forecaster at    ,  , remarked that he was unsure how the cyclone developed.
655_miami miami It is  only tropical or subtropical storm on record during    , and was  earliest tropical cyclone to strike   .
656_miami miami Its structure initially was uncertain, and the storm was not included in the   hurricane season summary published by the    office.
657_miami miami Ultimately it was included in the tropical cyclone database.
658_miami miami Had it been operationally treated as a tropical cyclone, it would have been named Tropical Storm Able.
659_miami miami On     a disturbance was  observed in the western   declared to have been a tropical cyclone.
660_miami miami Winds were estimated at around  mph ( km/h), and it tracked rapidly northward, initially to the north-northwest.
661_miami miami After passing near  along the  , it turned northeastward and brushed the northwest coast of .
662_miami miami Early on   the storm approached Key West, and shortly thereafter moved ashore near  , .
663_miami miami It quickly crossed the state, passing near  before emerging into the western  .
664_miami miami The     office recorded a wind gust of  mph ( km/h), as well as sustained tropical storm force winds for   ; the station also recorded a barometric pressure of  mbar ( inHg).
665_miami miami The hurricane season officially began on  , when the     in ,  began   operations.
666_miami miami The agency, under the direction of   had access to  other weather stations across the  basin.
667_miami miami died during the season from a stroke while tracking Hurricane Hazel.
668_miami miami Additionally, a group of Hurricane Hunters planes were put on standby for the season, able to be flown out into storms and collect data.
669_miami miami During the season, there were  named storms, as well as an unnamed hurricane and a tropical depression.
670_miami miami The seson officilly ended on  , lthough n unnmed tropicl storm formed  dy lter.
671_miami miami In addition, Tropical Storm Alice developed on  , the latest a tropical cyclone has developed in the calendar .
672_miami miami The storm produced significant rainfall in a  region of .
673_miami miami The highest total in the state was  in .
674_miami miami There, the rains caused flash flooding that entered over  houses.
675_miami miami The flooding flooded  state highways, and also left portions of  inaccessible after reporting the heaviest rainfall in  .
676_miami miami Large tomato fields were inundated, resulting in some crop damage.
677_miami miami In portions of the state, the rains were beneficial due to  dry conditions.
678_miami miami The storm spawned a tornado in   that injured  person.
679_miami miami Damage throughout  was estimated at $3 million, mostly in the  area.
680_miami miami In addition,  surfers drowned during the storm.
681_miami miami Precipitation extended as far north as  , and coastal areas experienced high tides and gusty winds.
682_miami miami A low pressure area formed along a dissipating cold front to the north of  .
683_miami miami The system moved westward, developing some tropical characteristics by  .
684_miami miami , the storm moved over  before turning to the north.
685_miami miami On  , it crossed over southeastern  near .
686_miami miami The storm was never fully tropical, as its winds and precipitation extended far away from the center.
687_miami miami It produced sustained winds of  with gusts to .
688_miami miami After affecting , the storm crossed the western  and moved across the Outer Banks.
689_miami miami The storm became extratropical on   offshore , and    it was absorbed by anor extratropical storm.
690_miami miami The season officially began on  , the date that the Weather Bureau office in , , under the direction of  , began daily monitoring of all tropical disturbances and cyclones across the northern  .
691_miami miami The agency had access to the Hurricane Hunters, a fleet of aircraft that obtain data by flying into storms.
692_miami miami The Weather Bureau, in collaboration with other agencies, began a &ndash; project in  to obtain and analyze data on the structure of hurricanes.
693_miami miami The season officially ended on  .
694_miami miami The hurricane caused  deaths and considerable damage as an extratropical cyclone.
695_miami miami It also caused $1,656,000 ( USD) in damage in , most of which came from a single tornado in .
696_miami miami In its early stages, the storm dropped moderately heavy rainfall in , which caused damage to crops.
697_miami miami A tornado near  and high tides on the west coast of the state also resulted in damage.
698_miami miami Overall, losses in  were slightly more than $1.5 million ( USD).
699_miami miami After becoming extratropical, the storm caused significant effects in  .
700_miami miami Rough seas damaged or destroyed numerous fishing boats and caused  fatalities.
701_miami miami High winds also disrupted communications in some areas.
702_miami miami By  ,  made landfall near   border and dissipated over  on   .
703_miami miami On  ,  of rain fell in only  .
704_miami miami No impact was reported in .
705_miami miami The storm dropped rainfall across , though the heavier amounts were mainly on the  coast.
706_miami miami Precipitation peaked at  near Fellsmere, while rainfall reached  in some areas of the  metropolitan area.
707_miami miami Although  was a depression at landfall, sustained winds between  were recorded in  , while a gust as high as  was reported in  .
708_miami miami In , a pressure gradient combined with  to produce tides of  about normal.
709_miami miami A tropical wave strengthened into a depression on  , and was named Tropical Storm  soon after.
710_miami miami moved quickly to the west and strengthened into a Category  storm by the time it churned through the Lesser Antilles.
711_miami miami The hurricane remained a Category  as it passed into the , and moved just to the south of  on  2, and then veered more to the north which brought a landfall on the tip of .
712_miami miami The storm then turned to the north and weakened to a Category  before it struck , but remained a hurricane the whole time over land.
713_miami miami then brushed against  and the east coast of  as it weakened from a Category  hurricane to a tropical storm.
714_miami miami killed a total of  people and caused serious property damage as it travelled through the   and into , totaling $198 million ( USD, $  USD) in damage.
715_miami miami Alma made landfall near  ,  on   as a tropical depression, and became extratropical    over  .
716_miami miami Although  passed just offshore, impact in  , if any, is unknown.
717_miami miami In the  , winds of  mph ( km/h) was reported.
718_miami miami Impact was severest in , where flash flooding caused  fatalities, destroyed several homes, forced the evacuation of  people in  , and resulted in a shutdown of  sugar mills.
719_miami miami The storm brought light rainfall to , peaking at  near .
720_miami miami Hazardous thunderstorms caused  death in  and damaged some roofs and building in  .
721_miami miami In other states, impact was mostly in the form of rain, though a tornado near ,   destroyed a roof.
722_miami miami In addition to the  named storms of  and  notable tropical depressions, there were several minor systems that were classified as depressions by the National Hurricane Center.
723_miami miami The   systems of   were not classified as fully tropical, rar y were associated with  remnants of decaying cold fronts.
724_miami miami On  , the  of these depressions formed northeast of the  and tracked in a curved motion before dissipating over open water on  .
725_miami miami , on  , another depression formed in the same general region; however, this system was shorter lived and dissipated    without significant movement.
726_miami miami On  , another partially tropical system formed over open waters.
727_miami miami The cyclone tracked northeast and dissipated late on   east-southeast of the Azores.
728_miami miami On  , a brief depression formed near  but dissipated   .
729_miami miami Roughly   into  officil hurricne seson,   depression of  yer formed just offshore soust Florid, ner Mimi.
730_miami miami The system tracked northwest across the peninsula and briefly entered the Gulf of  on    making landfall along the  .
731_miami miami The depression eventually dissipate on   over  .
732_miami miami A broad area of low pressure organized into a tropical depression off the coast of  on  .
733_miami miami After drifting to the southeast, it turned to the north-northwest and organized into a tropical storm on  .
734_miami miami Subsequent to crossing western ,  accelerated to the northeast, and attained hurricane status late on  .
735_miami miami It passed through the  Keys before entraining cooler, drier air from a stationary frontal boundary.
736_miami miami Its convection became very disorganized, and  weakened back to a tropical storm early on   to the southeast of ; the storm crossed the , and becoming an extratropical cyclone before being absorbed by the frontal boundary on  .
737_miami miami In the ,  brought high tides, hurricane force winds, and tornadoes, which caused significant damage in the archipelago, especially on Cat Cays.
738_miami miami At least  houses were destroyed and left damage to the transport, communications, water, sanitation, agriculture, and fishing sectors.
739_miami miami Overall,  caused  fatalities and $250 million ( USD) in damage in the .
740_miami miami Throughout the southern portions of ,  brought very high winds; a wind gust of  mph ( km/h) was reported at a house in , .
741_miami miami High winds caused catastrophic damage in , especially in  , where approximately  houses were either severely damaged or destroyed.
742_miami miami In the ,  acres ( km2) of trees were knocked down and about   fish were killed.
743_miami miami Rainfall in  was moderate, peaking at  in western  .
744_miami miami Significant damage to oil platforms was reported, with  company losing  platforms, had  structures damaged, and  drilling wells blown off course.
745_miami miami In ,  produced hurricane force winds along its path, which left about  without electricity, downed 80% of trees in the   , and caused significant agricultural damage.
746_miami miami An F3 tornado in   the   damaged or destroyed  structures.
747_miami miami fatalities were reported in ,  of which were drowning victims offshore.
748_miami miami Elsewhere, the storm spawned at least  tornadoes, especially in , , and .
749_miami miami Overall,  caused  fatalities and $26 billion ( USD) in damage, making it the  costliest hurricane in  history, behind only Hurricane Katrina in  and Hurricane Ike in .
750_miami miami Following 's closest approach, the    station in  recorded a minimum barometric pressure of, as well as  surface winds as the center of  passed a little to the west.
751_miami miami The     in  reported a minimum central pressure of .
752_miami miami Only  other reports of tropical storm force winds were reported on the  mainland, besides , were reported in associated with .
753_miami miami In , sustained winds of  were observed at  UTC.
754_miami miami Shortly thereafter, near  UTC, sustained winds of  with gusts up to  were reported in the same location.
755_miami miami Several ships reported rough weather during 's existence, with the "Pacific Sandpiper" reporting a maximum wave height of .
756_miami miami In , it is reported that waves in excess of  moved through the city.
757_miami miami In several states, heavy rainfall between  to  inches was recorded.
758_miami miami However, in  , the highest rainfall total was observed, at .
759_miami miami According to "The  " and the "West Hawaii ",  is blamed for the death of  deaths, which includes both direct and indirect.
760_miami miami Most of the fatalities came from heavy rainfall associated with the system.
761_miami miami A state of emergency was declared in at least  states in  following 's passage, and the    said that  people were evacuated in  states.
762_miami miami Additionally, at least  people were left homeless.
763_miami miami Finally, rough seas near   caused all  tons of sulfuric acid to leak aboard the  beached cargo tanker, "Betula".
764_miami miami While hurricanes are often seen as the biggest weather threat to , tornadoes are relatively common in  , although the vast majority of the tornadoes that strike -Dade  are small, relatively weak F0 or F1 tornadoes.
765_miami miami Most of these tornadoes form as either waterspouts off  , as part of the frequent afternoon thunderstorms, or spawned from a tropical storm or hurricane.
766_miami miami Tornadoes can and have occurred in every month of the year in  .
767_miami miami The tornado formed in the afternoon (around 2:00 PM), initially touching down in the Silver Bluff Estates area.
768_miami miami It then swept through , bypassing the city's skyscrapers.
769_miami miami It then crossed the MacArthur  and the  , towards  , sideswiping a cruise ship.
770_miami miami The tornado lifted from the water halfway through   and touched down briefly again in  , flipping over a car and then dissipating.
771_miami miami The Storm Prediction Center in  had predicted tornadoes in the area and warned that there might be more to come.
0_los+angeles los+angeles A magnitude  earthquake destroys most of  ,  and triggers a massive tsunami which causes massive damage to , .
1_los+angeles los+angeles It turns out to be only the  of a series of seismic events, including the awakening of extinct volcanoes, sudden instability of aquifers, and awakening of ancient faults.
2_los+angeles los+angeles The Hoover Dam in  ,  and  collapses when   starts to heat up and expand beyond the spillway's capacity.
3_los+angeles los+angeles ,  is then destroyed when acidic water undermines underground limestone, creating a massive sinkhole.
4_los+angeles los+angeles The worst of the seismic events is a massive fault which has opened up under  , destroying   in the process.
5_los+angeles los+angeles , an  geologist  seismologist, in a  report published in the "Bulletin  the    ", stated that the firsth reports were most abundant for the shocks felt at , ,    before the main shock which were then labeled the predawn, dawn,  sunrise shocks.
6_los+angeles los+angeles The predawn event shook residents of   (MM  — I),   (MM ), and ta  (MM ).
7_los+angeles los+angeles The dawn shock was felt in those locales plus   and possibly the Carrizo Plain.
8_los+angeles los+angeles The sunrise shock was felt in   (MM ),  (MM ), and  (MM  — ).
9_los+angeles los+angeles and   did not report any of these events.
10_los+angeles los+angeles Surface faulting may have extended beyond the boundaries of the regularly acknowledged slip length.
11_los+angeles los+angeles Researchers recorded  and second-hand accounts of the ground crack, which was understood to be recent surface faulting and not just the topography of the existing rift.
12_los+angeles los+angeles On the extreme northern end of the rupture zone, the surface cracking extended  north of  into   .
13_los+angeles los+angeles On the southern end, the population centers were not as close to the fault, and early observers were probably limited to the stretch of the fault between   and  , as that was close to the  –   .
14_los+angeles los+angeles Evidence of uprooted and displaced trees south of   indicates surface faulting along a "mole track" that ran directly under   .
15_los+angeles los+angeles of the  trees examined were tilted in their lower extremity, while the upper portions remained relatively untilted.
16_los+angeles los+angeles Tree ring dating confirmed that the trees had originated  and     and also that the rings began to grow twice as thick on the side in the direction of the tilt; this is a frequently noted compensation of tree tilt.
17_los+angeles los+angeles Seismologist   determined that fault slip and the associated ground disturbance was the source of the mole track and subsequent tree tilt.
18_los+angeles los+angeles Scientists and public service officials have speculated on the threat of another very large earthquake occurring in southern  and what type and scale of damage might result.
19_los+angeles los+angeles The portion of the fault that ruptured in  has settled into a period of dormancy and this has given rise to suggestions that  slip along that zone may be characterized by a very large -type event followed by another period of inactivity.
20_los+angeles los+angeles The cities of  , , and  are all located very close to the   fault, though much of the   area could be affected even at a greater distance from the rupture area if a similar event were to reoccur there.
21_los+angeles los+angeles , assistant pressor  civil engineering and geophysics at the    , said that if a similar rupture from  to  were to happen again, it would severely affect the   area, with the    being particularly hard hit.
22_los+angeles los+angeles Bodies of water experienced disturbances, particularly in southern , where rivers spilled over their banks.
23_los+angeles los+angeles Farther north in    the flow of well water was affected.
24_los+angeles los+angeles Ground cracks from liquefaction of swampy ground were observed in   and near , and ground fissures were reported near the  ,  , and   .
25_los+angeles los+angeles The mainshock was followed by a series of aftershocks th continued for    , although the total number of large aftershocks was less than would be expected for an earthquake of this size.
26_los+angeles los+angeles The  largest aftershocks all had magnitudes greater than , although there are large uncertainties in both location and magnitude due to the limited number of data points available.
27_los+angeles los+angeles On the night of 9  there was a large aftershock with an estimated magnitude of about , with a possible epicenter near the  .
28_los+angeles los+angeles The largest aftershock occurred on the afternoon of 16  with an estimated magnitude of about , with a possible offshore location, and high felt intensities in   communities.
29_los+angeles los+angeles and   reported an MM intensity of V and   reported V and VI.
30_los+angeles los+angeles significant events occurred in the   area on –  , with the latter having an estimated magnitude of about .
31_los+angeles los+angeles The last recorded major aftershock occurred on   , with an estimated magnitude of about , with an epicenter close to the  section of the   .
32_los+angeles los+angeles was buffeted by high winds, damaging corn crops and trees.
33_los+angeles los+angeles and  noted large amounts of rain, as much as , but low winds.
34_los+angeles los+angeles A report from  "  Times"    stated no damage was found in  , but also specified that severe shocks were felt in  .
35_los+angeles los+angeles Masonry walls were cracked in several buildings there, as well as the outlying communities of  and .
36_los+angeles los+angeles At the abandoned    , in what is      in eastern   , poorly built masonry was damaged and all adobe buildings were destroyed.
37_los+angeles los+angeles At Hook Ranch and   the shaking was strong enough to throw people off their feet and at   and   the ground was seen to move in waves.
38_los+angeles los+angeles There were rockfalls at  ,   , Storm  and Whale Peak and landslides at   and Devil's .
39_los+angeles los+angeles The experiment was considered a failure.
40_los+angeles los+angeles Football legend    officiated the game and commented, "It seems to me that the distance required in  downs would almost eliminate touchdowns, except through fakes or flukes."
41_los+angeles los+angeles The    reported that there was much kicking and that the game was considered much safer than regular play, but that the new rule was not "conducive to the sport."
42_los+angeles los+angeles On   in ,  an experimental game was played between   and  .
43_los+angeles los+angeles The game tested a rule change that required the offense to earn a  down in  plays instead of .
44_los+angeles los+angeles Football legend    officiated the game and commented, "It seems to me that the distance required in  downs would almost eliminate touchdowns, except through fakes or flukes."
45_los+angeles los+angeles The "Los Angeles Times" reported that there was much kicking and that the game was considered much safer than regular play, but that the new rule was not "conducive to the sport."
46_los+angeles los+angeles The   Report, a study  the  quake led and edited by Pressor    the   , showed that the very same  Andreas Fault which had caused the disaster in   ran close to   as well.
47_los+angeles los+angeles The earthquake was the  natural disaster of its magnitude to be documented by photography and motion picture footage.
48_los+angeles los+angeles Moreover, it occurred at a time when the science of seismology was blossoming.
49_los+angeles los+angeles The overall cost of the damage from the earthquake was estimated at the time to be around US$400 million ($8.2 billion in  dollars).
50_los+angeles los+angeles The most widely accepted estimate for the magnitude of the earthquake is a moment magnitude (Mw) of ; however, other values have been proposed, from  to as high as .
51_los+angeles los+angeles The main shock epicenter occurred offshore about  from the city, near  .
52_los+angeles los+angeles It ruptured along the    both northward and southward for a total of .
53_los+angeles los+angeles Shaking was felt from  to  , and inland as far as central .
54_los+angeles los+angeles Early reporting from the "Los Angeles Times" described the city of  as being in ruins.
55_los+angeles los+angeles per cent of its buildings were either completely destroyed or badly damaged.
56_los+angeles los+angeles Messages were said to be fragmented coming over damaged communication systems as a result of telegraph lines having been knocked down.
57_los+angeles los+angeles message that did get through was from General  , a military commander in the state of , to president    stating at least  persons were dead.
58_los+angeles los+angeles and  reported light damage and  death was reported in  city.
59_los+angeles los+angeles The town of    , located between  and the coast, was reported to be completely stroyed.
60_los+angeles los+angeles The major damage occurred in the thickly settled district from   to the industrial section south of  , where unfavorable geological conditions (made land, water-soaked alluvium) combined with poor structural work to increase the damage.
61_los+angeles los+angeles At  , buildings collapsed, water tanks fell through roofs, and houses displaced on foundations.
62_los+angeles los+angeles School buildings were among those structures most generally and severely damaged.
63_los+angeles los+angeles The storm dropped heavy rain on , with  falling in   ( inches in  ) and  recorded at  , both  records.
64_los+angeles los+angeles Over  ,  thunderstorm dropped nearly  of rain on .
65_los+angeles los+angeles inches fell on Raywood Flat, and  on  .
66_los+angeles los+angeles inches fell on , a  record at the time.
67_los+angeles los+angeles At the Citrus Belt near , at least  inches of rain fell.
68_los+angeles los+angeles The  at   is  of 's highest rainfall amounts from a tropical cycl, although at least  system has a higher point maximum.
69_los+angeles los+angeles The rains caused a flood  to  deep in   , although some of   be attributable to a rainstorm dropping      storm hit.
70_los+angeles los+angeles The   , which was usually low during , became a raging torrent.
71_los+angeles los+angeles In an interview with the "Los Angeles Times" shortly after the earthquake, Dr.  , a geophysicist and pressor at the     in , prematurely reported that the source  the quake was the   fault and compared the earthquake to the    earthquake saying "The energy  the Imperial Vally shock was less, and it should have d less damage, than the   , even had it occurred in an area  greater population."
72_los+angeles los+angeles The Imperial Fault had not been  identified and had only become differentiated from the other faults in the area by geologists after the earthquake had occurred.
73_los+angeles los+angeles The city of  ,  was hardest hit, with structural damage ranging from minor to the collapse of a furniture store.
74_los+angeles los+angeles Several other locations in  suffered significant damage.
75_los+angeles los+angeles School buildings were destroyed in   and , ; significant damage was also reported from  ,  , , and .
76_los+angeles los+angeles Several injuries were reported, but no deaths.
77_los+angeles los+angeles The "   earthquake" occurred on    in    with a magnitude of  on the moment magnitude scale.
78_los+angeles los+angeles It was the largest earthquake to strike   since the   earthquake of  and the  Lone Pine earthquake, causing immense and widespread damage.
79_los+angeles los+angeles The main shock killed  people, injured  and caused more than $50 million in property damage.
80_los+angeles los+angeles Damage occurred as far away as  , where  people were killed.
81_los+angeles los+angeles It was followed by several aftershocks, at least  of which were magnitude  or greater, including a magnitude  on   that killed  more people.
82_los+angeles los+angeles The quake occurred on the White Wolf Fault and was the strongest quake in  since the    earthquake.
83_los+angeles los+angeles This  story reinforced concrete building in   had been built in  when there were few other tall buildings in the area and was located  km northwest of the epicenter.
84_los+angeles los+angeles The decision to equip the building with  strong motion sensors in  176 was based on its size, structural attributes, and location in a seismically active area.
85_los+angeles los+angeles Unusually detailed structural analysis was possible as a result of the building having been outfitted with the instrumentation.
86_los+angeles los+angeles The initial configuration was tested shortly after its installation when a relatively small ( local magnitude) earthquake occurred  kilometers northwest of the building on   .
87_los+angeles los+angeles The accelerations recorded on the equipment during this event proved to be of very low amplitude and, as a result, the instrumentation was upgraded and improved to include a  channel configuration in the building along with a  triaxial ( channel) accelerograph located 40 feet east of the building at ground level.
88_los+angeles los+angeles The full  channel system was managed by the           ,  provided almost   worth  high resolution data during the  event.
89_los+angeles los+angeles In an interview with the "Los Angeles Times" following the earthquake,  , a scientist with the    , said that the instruments captured "about the  or  most significant recording of building damage we've made in  " and that they "have only  other cases in which damage has occurred in an instrumented building".
90_los+angeles los+angeles The remains of this tropical cyclone caused heavy rains in   due to the subtropical jetstream and westerly winds.
91_los+angeles los+angeles The highest amount noted was  at   with light rain in the    and in   counties ( , , and  ).
92_los+angeles los+angeles In the northern part of that county, some flooding was reported and storms help firefighters blaze a  acre wildfire.
93_los+angeles los+angeles In Riverside, the system was responsible for heavy rains.
94_los+angeles los+angeles As such, the  Creek overflowed its banks.
95_los+angeles los+angeles The city of  suffered extensive damage with nearly $100 million in damage there.
96_los+angeles los+angeles buildings collapsed with many more damaged beyond repair.
97_los+angeles los+angeles Some of the heaviest damage to residential areas was concentrated north of the business district.
98_los+angeles los+angeles The city council proclaimed a state of emergency and asked the governor to do the same to help residents and business owners qualify for financial assistance.
99_los+angeles los+angeles people died as a direct result, and  other deaths are attributed indirectly to the event.
100_los+angeles los+angeles death was of a    worker buried by a landslide in the   area of the    while working with a crew installing the footings for a high tension power tower north of , .
101_los+angeles los+angeles was killed when a concrete slab fell on her as she, her sister and a friend were exiting a parking structure at   ,  .
102_los+angeles los+angeles The university, just a few miles from the epicenter, also sustained damage that did not result in injury.
103_los+angeles los+angeles An electrical fire and a chemical spill occurred in separate buildings.
104_los+angeles los+angeles Damage at the campus was not confined to the poorly secured concrete panel on the parking structure.
105_los+angeles los+angeles Shear cracks were found both on the interior walls of a concrete reinforced building and the support columns of a walkway near the library.
106_los+angeles los+angeles More than  homes and businesses were impacted, mainly in   and Orange counties, resulting in about $358 million USD in damage.
107_los+angeles los+angeles Modified Mercalli intensity scale values for the greater   area were varied with ranges from VI ("Strong") to VII ("Very Strong").
108_los+angeles los+angeles Only  experienced a level of VIII ("Destructive"), the highest experienced during the event, with the historic uptown area suffering the greatest damage.
109_los+angeles los+angeles In , a two-page letter addressing   Mayor   was sent to the "  Times" and "Fresno Bee" ostensibly from an "ecoterrorist organization" calling itself "The Breeders".
110_los+angeles los+angeles The group claimed that it was responsible for the  release of the medflies as retaliation for the environmental damage caused by the  aerial spraying by the state.
111_los+angeles los+angeles It also threatened to expand its medfly infestation into the   .
112_los+angeles los+angeles The letters claimed that officials would have noticed an uptick in medfly numbers around  .
113_los+angeles los+angeles The group promised to make the aerial spraying program politically and financially impossible through the coordinated release of thousands of medflies.
114_los+angeles los+angeles As early as   the group's claim was taken seriously.
115_los+angeles los+angeles Initially, the letter was dismissed as "some crank trying to get a lot of publicity", but there was evidence the group played a role in the infestation.
116_los+angeles los+angeles Certain characteristics of the  medfly infestation led investigators to the conclusion that someone was responsible for deliberately releasing medflies; The dense medfly population coupled with the low number of medfly larvae found in the infested areas left entomologists baffled as to how the infestation could be completely natural.
117_los+angeles los+angeles The writer of the letter, and any members of the alleged group, were never identified.
118_los+angeles los+angeles Damage to the area directly surrounding the epicenter was severe.
119_los+angeles los+angeles Roads were buckled, buildings and chimneys collapsed.
120_los+angeles los+angeles There were also large surface fissures.
121_los+angeles los+angeles To the west in the    damage was much less severe.
122_los+angeles los+angeles The majority of damage in the  area involved items which had fallen off shelves.
123_los+angeles los+angeles Unlike the   erthquke  yer nd  nd  hlf  lter, no freewy bridges collpsed becuse of the epicenter's remote loction.
124_los+angeles los+angeles Electricity was disabled  thousands of residents, but was generally resred within    .
125_los+angeles los+angeles There was also some damage to homes from water displaced from swimming pools.
126_los+angeles los+angeles The " earthquake" was an earthquake that occurred on    at 04:31    in  a neighborhood in    lasting for about – .
127_los+angeles los+angeles The earthquake had a "strong" moment magnitude of , but the ground acceleration was  of the highest ever instrumentally recorded in an urban area in  , measuring  "g" (1 m/s2) with strong ground motion felt as far away as  , , about  miles ( km) from the epicenter.
128_los+angeles los+angeles The peak ground velocity in this earthquake at the   station was  cm/s ( km/h or  mph), the fastest peak ground velocity ever recorded.
129_los+angeles los+angeles The death toll came to a total of  people, and there were over  injured.
130_los+angeles los+angeles In addition, the earthquake caused an estimated $20 billion in damage, making it  of the costliest natural disasters in  history.
131_los+angeles los+angeles Despite moving over warm waters,  began to weaken because it began an eyewall replacement cycle.
132_los+angeles los+angeles When the cycle ended, the cyclone was over cooler water and unsteadily weakened.
133_los+angeles los+angeles fell to a tropical storm on  , then degenerated into a remnant low and turned to the northeast.
134_los+angeles los+angeles The remnant dissipated over the open ocean about  mi ( km) west of  .
135_los+angeles los+angeles The "   Earthquake" was a magnitude Mw  earthquake on the    , about  northeast   .
136_los+angeles los+angeles It occurred at 11:15 PST (19:15 UTC) on   .
137_los+angeles los+angeles The earthquake probably occurred on the Oceanic fault zone in the   .
138_los+angeles los+angeles It was caused by reverse faulting and propagated southeast from the hypocenter for  miles ( km).
139_los+angeles los+angeles The most violent ground movement occurred within  miles of the epicenter, though the earthquake was felt as far away as  .
140_los+angeles los+angeles It was the most destructive earthquake to hit the  since the   earthquake.
141_los+angeles los+angeles , ; , ; the   region; and other areas have reported damage such as ruptured water lines and buckled roads.
142_los+angeles los+angeles The heat wave has been blamed for the damage.
143_los+angeles los+angeles Interstate  had  traffic lanes temporarily closed in   after they buckled under the heat.
144_los+angeles los+angeles In addition, overworked power transformers have been damaged or rendered useless because of the heat, resulting in blackouts, notably in  , ; ,  ;  , ; and the  .
145_los+angeles los+angeles Some wildfires, including forest fires, and greater thunderstorm intensity, have both been blamed on the heat wave.
146_los+angeles los+angeles Temperatures hit  F ( C) on   in , making it the hottest    and  of the  hottest  , when temperature records were  kept in the city.
147_los+angeles los+angeles temperatures began reaching record levels by  .
148_los+angeles los+angeles In  section of the City of  ,  , the temperature reached  F ( C) making it the highest recorded temperature in the county and within the city border breaking the old record of  in  .
149_los+angeles los+angeles The unusual daytime heat resulted in extremely high overnight temperatures.
150_los+angeles los+angeles Needles,  recorded a low temperature for ,   at 5 am., of  F and in the LA basin the same night,  recorded an overnight low of  F ( C).
151_los+angeles los+angeles The scare was met with criticism from a number of sources such as "The  ", "  Times",  , and "The  ".
152_los+angeles los+angeles A group of police found them to be sharing "some characteristics with improvised explosive devices."
153_los+angeles los+angeles These characteristics included an identifiable power source, circuit board with exposed wiring, and electrical tape.
154_los+angeles los+angeles Investigators were trying to determine "if it was a hoax or something else entirely".
155_los+angeles los+angeles City and State officials came to an agreement with   to pay for costs incurred during the incident, while several police departments found many of the devices afterwards.
156_los+angeles los+angeles The area was in the midst of an unusual drought; in  , , with only  in ( mm) of precipitation in the entire  rain season, it was, at that time, the driest  on record, receiving less rain than   in a normal .
157_los+angeles los+angeles An unusually mild  across many parts of the  and   paved the way for an extreme blast of  air that dipped extremely far south causing  snow conditions in the   and unusually frigid temperatures in   and the   .
158_los+angeles los+angeles brought extremely dry conditions for   as well as unusually warm weather, with relatively little cloud cover in the area.
159_los+angeles los+angeles averaged well over  degrees above average for    .
160_los+angeles los+angeles In the  , the area was continually blasted with unusually large rain storms causing flooding in much of  and .
161_los+angeles los+angeles Temperatures began to drop below average in the       and   in  .
162_los+angeles los+angeles The  freeze occurred in the    around midnight on  .
163_los+angeles los+angeles During this time, the middle of the nation was being affected by a severe ice storm system caused by the tail end of the same arctic air afflicting the west.
164_los+angeles los+angeles Areas that rarely experience snow in   received a rare glimpse of it during this cold spell.
165_los+angeles los+angeles brought snow to areas of  and   .
166_los+angeles los+angeles The snow level dropped close to sea level during this cold snap, however no precipitation fell during  ,  , or   in the area when temperatures were at their coldest.
167_los+angeles los+angeles Records were set across   for temperatures as well.
168_los+angeles los+angeles saw a low of F (C) in downtown   a record for  .
169_los+angeles los+angeles bottomed out at F and F (C) on consecutive mornings.
170_los+angeles los+angeles , a city set in the high desert of   , reached just F (C).
171_los+angeles los+angeles Many sections of the Grapevine freeway were closed due to snow, and several accidents occurred as a result of black ice.
172_los+angeles los+angeles A  study by     () predicts that  will experience a "major earthquake" —  equal to or greater than    earthquake that was responsible for collapsing parts of  ' freeways and causing $25 billion in damage — in    .
173_los+angeles los+angeles is at slightly higher risk than  : The chance that a magnitude-6 quake will strike greater   is 67 percent.
174_los+angeles los+angeles The probability of the same sized temblor striking the   area is 63 percent.
175_los+angeles los+angeles Experts say that the fault with the highest probability — 59 percent likelihood — of generating at least   or larger quake is the southern portion of the   , which runs  kilometers across southern and western , including beneath the eastern suburbs of  .
176_los+angeles los+angeles In  , the Hayward-Rodgers Creek fault zone is the most likely to shake, with a 31 percent chance of generating at least a  quake.
177_los+angeles los+angeles The Hayward fault zone runs beneath eastern   and the   suburbs, including  and .
178_los+angeles los+angeles The last major earthquake on this fault was in , but activity in   rattled   and other   cities.
179_los+angeles los+angeles The Chino Hills earthquake was caused by oblique slip faulting, with components of both thrust and sinistral strike-slip displacement.
180_los+angeles los+angeles Preliminary reports cited the  fault as the active cause, but the quake was later determined to have been generated by the "Yorba  trend," as identified by  seismologist  .
181_los+angeles los+angeles Its epicenter was within  of   and its hypocenter was approximately  deep.
182_los+angeles los+angeles Initial estimations of the moderate main shock reported it as magnitude , but this was  revised to magnitude  and in   to a .
183_los+angeles los+angeles The main shock was reportedly felt as far south as  , and , , and as far east as  , .
184_los+angeles los+angeles It was the strongest earthquake to occur in the greater   area since the   earthquake.
185_los+angeles los+angeles On  , a broad area of low pressure developed within a tropical wave several  miles south of , .
186_los+angeles los+angeles Shower and thunderstorm activity associated with  system gradually increased over     as it tracked west-northwestward.
187_los+angeles los+angeles By  , the low became sufficiently organized and was declared a tropical depression roughly  mi ( km) of , .
188_los+angeles los+angeles Turning towards the northwest in response to a ridge over , the depression intensified into Tropical Storm  later that .
189_los+angeles los+angeles Despite southwesterly wind shear displacing the center of  from the deepest convection, the system continued to strengthen, attaining peak winds of  mph ( km/h) on  .
190_los+angeles los+angeles Shortly thereafter, convection associated with the storm dissipated, possibly due to entrainment of dry air.
191_los+angeles los+angeles Later that  the system degenerated into a remnant low and gradually weakened.
192_los+angeles los+angeles The remnants eventually dissipated on   roughly  mi ( km) west-southwest of  , .
193_los+angeles los+angeles On  , the    confirmed  further cases  novel  A(H1N1); bringing the national total to .
194_los+angeles los+angeles of the new cases is the son of a  man who  flew into   on Air NZ flight NZ5.
195_los+angeles los+angeles The other  new cases came from international flights from   (NZ5) and  (NZ124).
196_los+angeles los+angeles These people have been isolated and are being treated with .
197_los+angeles los+angeles Health officials are in the process of contacted those who may have had contact with those confirmed of having  A(H1N1).
198_los+angeles los+angeles , ( ), the    reported  further cases.
199_los+angeles los+angeles Both of these new cases travelled to   from   on  , and are  in isolation with their close contacts.
200_los+angeles los+angeles Concern has also be raised after  people ( students,  teachers and  parent) from     returned to   on  , and  students began experiencing flu-like symptoms.
201_los+angeles los+angeles ItA(H1N1)   It was confirmed on   that swabs taken from the students returned negative for novel Influenza.
202_los+angeles los+angeles On whether braking alone may fail to stop affected vehicles, a driver account in the "  Times" claimed that the attempt to stop a  Camry was unsuccessful with both the brake and emergency brake.
203_los+angeles los+angeles However, tests of the Camry by "Car  Driver" in , attempting to use the brakes to stop acceleration of a purposely stuck throttle at , ,   mph, found that the test driver was able to reduce speed to  mph in all instances,  in the    mph tests, stop the car completely.
204_los+angeles los+angeles The Camry's braking distances with a purposely stuck accelerator were also shorter than that of the  ' regular stopping distance.
205_los+angeles los+angeles "Car and Driver" concluded that, based on their emergency stopping tests, the Camry's brakes could overcome the accelerator in all cases even without a brake override, and that stopping distances with a wide-open throttle were largely indiscernible from regular braking.
206_los+angeles los+angeles On    ABC News quoted   head of the for-profit firm "   " stating that he had uncovered hundreds of "non-floor mat sudden acceleration cases" which the floor mat recall did not address.
207_los+angeles los+angeles who works with attorneys suing  said his firm had discovered over   sudden acceleration cases involving  deaths and  injuries publishing its most comprehensive report on the issue on   .
208_los+angeles los+angeles alleged that the problem was not with the accelerator pedals, but with the electronic throttle control systems (ETC).
209_los+angeles los+angeles An electronic throttle control system is a drive-by-wire system, in which the accelerator pedal and the engine are indirectly linked electronically, instead of directly linked mechanically.
210_los+angeles los+angeles This means that input from the accelerator pedal is just  input used to decide how wide the throttle is opened.
211_los+angeles los+angeles On    "The Wall Street Journal" reported that 's company was "controversial" because its income comes from lawsuits against auto manufacturers which was not disclosed in media reports; auto journalists noted that the firm had a "vested interest" in blaming manufacturer defects while avoiding operator error.
212_los+angeles los+angeles The "Los Angeles Times" reported that since  and Lexus began installing electronic throttle control systems in , complaints of unintended acceleration with vehicles from both those brands rose sharply.
213_los+angeles los+angeles Electromagnetic interference with the electronic throttle control system is another possible cause of unintended acceleration.
214_los+angeles los+angeles Some speculated that cosmic rays, or radiation from outer space, was a possible source for alleged electronic malfunctions.
215_los+angeles los+angeles The "Wall Street Journal" reported on    that "safety regulators human-error experts and auto makers say driver error is the primary cause of sudden acceleration."
216_los+angeles los+angeles Regarding the   recalls, "'s Auto" noted that  investigations over   have found that the majority of sudden unintended acceleration cases are due to driver error.
217_los+angeles los+angeles In such cases, accidents are the result of drivers mistakenly stepping on the gas pedal instead of the brake.
218_los+angeles los+angeles On    the "Los Angeles Times" quoted a motor skills consultant stating that the fault in sudden acceleration cases "almost always lies with drivers who step on the wrong pedal."
219_los+angeles los+angeles In  , "Car and Driver" suggested that the alleged accident rate of  in  recalled Toyotas was "highly unlikely" to result from vehicle defects, pointing to an increased danger for drivers who "aren't smart or calm enough to shift to neutral".
220_los+angeles los+angeles , "Forbes" referred to auto industry experts as "skeptical" of defect explanations, suggesting that "driver error and panic account for many reported problems" with recalled Toyotas.
221_los+angeles los+angeles On  ,  , author of "Traffic Safety", claimed that driver behavior was the main factor in Toyota accidents, and that the consensus of   of scientific research is that driver error is the prominent explanation for automotive fatalities.
222_los+angeles los+angeles In  , "Forbes"  , "The "s   and attorney   argued that the fact that most of the incidents of sudden acceleration in  occur in elderly drivers strongly suggest that there is not an electronics problem as opposed to  of pedal misapplication.
223_los+angeles los+angeles 's article was titled: "Why Do Toyotas Hate the Elderly?", and  noted that  immigrants were also twice as likely to be involved.
224_los+angeles los+angeles However, lawsuits filed regarding sudden unintended acceleration cases, along with related third-party investigation reports, have typically avoided the driver error explanation.
225_los+angeles los+angeles On   20 the "  " ran a piece by   PhD pressor emeritus  psychology at      and sudden acceleration researcher suspecting driver error as the primary cause  unexplained  sudden acceleration reports.
226_los+angeles los+angeles pointed to several factors that make driver error more likely: elderly driver age, lack of experience with the car, and short stature.
227_los+angeles los+angeles In addition, unexplained sudden acceleration events were most frequently reported as occurring from low speed or fully stopped.
228_los+angeles los+angeles Typically, the driver was intending to press the brake, and did not consciously confuse the pedals; however, because of advanced age and neuromuscular irregularities, short stature and difficulty reaching the pedals, a slight misalignment in seating position, or unfamiliarity with the car model, the driver's foot contacted the accelerator by mistake.
229_los+angeles los+angeles The resulting unexpected sudden acceleration would lead to panic, with the driver thinking that the acceleration system had failed.
230_los+angeles los+angeles The immediate response would be to brake hard, but not knowing that their foot was on the accelerator, pressing down caused greater acceleration.
231_los+angeles los+angeles In such panic situations, the driver would think that the brakes were not responding, and continue pressing on the gas pedal until they crashed.
232_los+angeles los+angeles Switching to neutral or turning off the ignition was typically not contemplated.
233_los+angeles los+angeles Incidents occurred exclusively in automatic transmission-equipped cars  with driver complaints involving rental cars being far more frequent.
234_los+angeles los+angeles All factors point to reduced driver familiarity and sophistication.
235_los+angeles los+angeles On    a 5.4-magnitude earthquake triggered by the    quake occurred on the    the most seismically active fault in  and  of  that exhibited signs of increased pressure following the  quake.
236_los+angeles los+angeles It was centered  miles ( kilometers) northwest of the town of  .
237_los+angeles los+angeles The quake in  transferred stress to fault zones farther north, triggering the quake.
238_los+angeles los+angeles The quake rattled buildings in downtown  , toppled bottles off shelves and briefly halted rides at .
239_los+angeles los+angeles The heat wave was absent on the west coast of  , where an unusually cool  took place.
240_los+angeles los+angeles However, parts of  and parts of  saw slightly above-average temperatures on  .
241_los+angeles los+angeles On  ,   broke its all-time record high, recording a temperature of  in downtown  , along with    having a new record high temperature of .
242_los+angeles los+angeles The Southwestern   had near-high temperatures from   to  , and even hotter than that in some regions.
243_los+angeles los+angeles This earthquake released a surface energy (Me) of  joules, dissipated as shaking and tsunamic energy, which is nearly double that of the 9.1-magnitude    earthquake and tsunami that killed  people.
244_los+angeles los+angeles If harnessed, the surface energy from this earthquake would power a city the size of   for an entire .
245_los+angeles los+angeles The total energy released, also known as the seismic moment (M0), was more than  times the surface energy and was calculated by the  at  joules, slightly less than the  Indian Ocean quake.
246_los+angeles los+angeles This is equivalent to  gigatons of , or approximately   times the energy of the   bomb.
247_los+angeles los+angeles Many states have policies in place that limit the use of AMBER alerts on freeway signs.
248_los+angeles los+angeles In  , an AMBER alert issued in   that was displayed on area freeway signs caused significant traffic congestion.
249_los+angeles los+angeles As a result, the  Highway Patrol elected not to display the alerts during rush , citing safety concerns.
250_los+angeles los+angeles The state of  only displays AMBER alerts on freeway signs if it is deemed appropriate by the   and a public safety agency.
251_los+angeles los+angeles AMBER alerts do not preempt messages related to traffic safety.
252_los+angeles los+angeles The Central Valley experiences hypothetical flooding  miles long and  or more miles wide.
253_los+angeles los+angeles Serious flooding also occurs in  ,   ,  , the    area, and other coastal communities.
254_los+angeles los+angeles Windspeeds in some places reach  miles per , hurricane-force winds.
255_los+angeles los+angeles Across wider areas of the state, winds reach  miles per .
256_los+angeles los+angeles Hundreds of landslides damage roads, highways, and homes.
257_los+angeles los+angeles Property damage exceeds $300 billion, most from flooding.
258_los+angeles los+angeles Demand surge (an increase in labor rates and other repair costs after major natural disasters) could increase property losses by 20 percent.
259_los+angeles los+angeles Agricultural losses and other costs to repair lifelines, dewater (drain) flooded islands, and repair damage from landslides, brings the total direct property loss to nearly $400 billion, of which $20 to $30 billion would be recoverable through public and commercial insurance.
260_los+angeles los+angeles Power, water, sewer, and other lifelines experience damage that takes  or  to restore.
261_los+angeles los+angeles Flooding evacuation could involve   residents in the inland region and delta counties.
262_los+angeles los+angeles Business interruption costs reach $25 billion in addition to the $400 billion property repair costs, meaning that an ARkStorm could cost on the order of $725 billion, which is nearly  times the loss deemed to be realistic by the ShakeOut authors for a severe southern  earthquake, an event with roughly the same annual occurrence probability.
263_los+angeles los+angeles In   ,   began a personal investigation of  lack of security at    Nuclear Generating Station, which is a few miles south of  .
264_los+angeles los+angeles Bank determined that the   plant was protected by  private security guard with a sidearm, as if the only concern was civilian theft.
265_los+angeles los+angeles Bank concluded that a single special forces soldier could overcome this guard, seize the plant and destroy it with a small quantity of explosives.
266_los+angeles los+angeles The consequence could be a  accident, whereby the damaged plant would spew radioactivity into the atmosphere and contaminate thousands of square miles, including the nearby   basin.
267_los+angeles los+angeles In , the    demanded that regulators investigate the danger of faults near the proposed site, but was ignored.
268_los+angeles los+angeles In  a   reporter discovered a report by    geologists completed prior construction of Diablo Canyon Power Plant of the existence of the Hosgri Fault ½ miles offshore from the facility.
269_los+angeles los+angeles As a result of the discovery, regulators forced  to redesign and reinforce the facility.
270_los+angeles los+angeles Despite the ’s claims of a “strong partnership with the  ,” recent articles have been published that call into question the equitability and efficiency of the ’s action on the abandoned uranium mines.
271_los+angeles los+angeles On        published an article entitled “Uranium Mines Dot Navajo Land Neglected and Still Perilous” by  .
272_los+angeles los+angeles The article suggests that politics and money are influencing the prioritization of mine clean-up efforts.
273_los+angeles los+angeles , an environmental manager at the     , has said that questions  whether  uranium problems are due to  mining or to the naturally occurring mineral are delaying the process  cleaning up.
274_los+angeles los+angeles Similar concerns are common in environmental remediation projects for victims of industrial pollution.
275_los+angeles los+angeles While the  does prioritize mines that are nearest to people’s homes,  highlights some remote locations where people do live and yet have been neglected by the .
276_los+angeles los+angeles ,  is  such site which has a population of  .
277_los+angeles los+angeles Rancher   stumbled across an abandoned uranium mine on his grazing land for his cattle near  in    .
278_los+angeles los+angeles There are still no warning signs in the town of  to alert people of potential contamination.
279_los+angeles los+angeles On      published an article entitled “Abandoned Uranium Mines: An ‘Overwhelming Problem’ in the Navajo Nation” by  .
280_los+angeles los+angeles told ’s story and reported that the  assessed his site on   .
281_los+angeles los+angeles suggested that this date was moved up due to publicity of ’s story; originally the  had promised to visit within   of his original discovery of the uranium mine.
282_los+angeles los+angeles Similar allegations of prioritization due to negative publicity for the  were made of the Skyline Mine in the  .
283_los+angeles los+angeles , a   woman from the Oljato region was the topic of a series of articles in The    in .
284_los+angeles los+angeles These articles were written by Yellow Dirt: An  Story of a Poisoned Land and a   () author  , whose work on these articles led to her book.
285_los+angeles los+angeles representative,  , stated this publicity “might have bumped the site up the priority list.”
286_los+angeles los+angeles over  yer fter  stumbled cross the mine in his cttle’s grzing lnd, McMilln reports tht the site t Cmeron hs yet to be given  priority by the .
287_los+angeles los+angeles When  officials were asked to accompany a reporter to the  site, the officials declined and instead offered to visit the newly cleaned site in .
288_los+angeles los+angeles spoke with a  hotel manager near the Skyline Mine who expressed hesitation about the EPAs remediation, stating, “That’s what they want you to see: something that’s all nice and cleaned up.”
289_los+angeles los+angeles drew attention to the fact that cows are grazing on contaminated land and people are eating these cattle.
290_los+angeles los+angeles , a director at the Center for Biological Diversity, went so far as to say the site was the “worst he had seen in the Southwest.”
291_los+angeles los+angeles Although the locally grown beef is tested, standard tests for meat do not include checking for radioactive substances like uranium.
292_los+angeles los+angeles The  has put an emphasis on health effects throughout its  plan, so the lack of any sort of attention in this matter has raised eyebrows.
293_los+angeles los+angeles In addition to the questioning of political bias in the prioritization of mining sites, there is criticism of the ’s decision to revisit a  permit proposing to mine for uranium near  .
294_los+angeles los+angeles ’s  radio station reported on    that Uranium Resources Incorporated has expressed interest in starting production near   by    .
295_los+angeles los+angeles An online petition has already gained nearly  signatures against this new mining initiative.
296_los+angeles los+angeles The effect of actinoform clouds on weather systems and climate patterns is still being analyzed.
297_los+angeles los+angeles Meteorology pressor    the   ,   theorizes that they, in conjunction with open-cell stratocumulus clouds, are associated with drizzle formation.
298_los+angeles los+angeles Observations from field studies in both the  and   seem to indicate that when marine stratus and stratocumulus clouds exist alone, in the absence of these open cells, the cloud formations are associated with light, or no, drizzle.
299_los+angeles los+angeles When the open cells are —and likewise actinoform clouds—there seems to be a corresponding increase in drizzle.
300_los+angeles los+angeles Thus, data from recent field studies suggest that the presence of "pockets of open cells" (POCs) and actinoform clouds is related to the onset of precipitation.
301_los+angeles los+angeles In fact, he discovered that the shape of the cloud field reorganizes itself when the clouds begin to rain.
302_los+angeles los+angeles In    of production,  Acura TL was given slightly more features, including a 5-speed automatic transmission with SportShift.
303_los+angeles los+angeles The added gear allowed for slightly better fuel economy and acceleration when compared to the previous 4-speed automatic transmission with SportShift.
304_los+angeles los+angeles With this model, if the driver forgets the  shift the computer will take over when in sport mode and do the  up and down shifts, unlike the 4-speed  model.
305_los+angeles los+angeles In many vehicles, the 5-speed automatic transmission failed: as the  clutch pack wore, particles blocked off oil passages and prevented the transmission from shifting or holding gears normally.
306_los+angeles los+angeles The transmission would slip, fail to shift, or suddenly downshift and make the car come to a screeching halt, even at freeway speeds.
307_los+angeles los+angeles This problem was highlighted in the "Los Angeles Times" in  .
308_los+angeles los+angeles "Consumer Reports" took note and gave the TL and CL the black spot, the worst rating for transmission reliability.
309_los+angeles los+angeles In response to the recurring problem, the manufacturer extended the warranty covering the transmission to   or  on U.S.A. models.
310_los+angeles los+angeles A class-action lawsuit was settled  extend the transmission warranty for  owners or entities    for all models made from    and some  models by VIN; however,  owners warranties were not extended.
311_los+angeles los+angeles Transmissions replaced prior to   usually fail again.
312_los+angeles los+angeles Transmissions replaced from   and later include a redesigned  gear clutch pack reported to fix the problem.
313_los+angeles los+angeles Following is a list of accidents and incidents experienced by airline.
314_los+angeles los+angeles According to the   ,  the carrier experienced  deadly accidents throughout its history, totalling  fatalities.
315_los+angeles los+angeles The deadliest  occurred in , with a death toll of .
316_los+angeles los+angeles The last accident involving fatalities the company experienced took place in , whereas in  there was a single casualty on a flight bound from   to  , when shrimp contaminated with cholera was distributed among the passengers.
317_los+angeles los+angeles The company ranks among the safest airlines in the world.
318_los+angeles los+angeles A new economic study  the health impacts and associated costs  air pollution in the    and       shows that more than  people die prematurely (approximately    than normal) each year because air pollution levels violate federal standards.
319_los+angeles los+angeles The number of annual premature deaths is considerably higher than the fatalities related to auto collisions in the same area, which average fewer than  per .
320_los+angeles los+angeles It is necessary to mention that   statistics are computed for typical travels for respective forms of transport, so they cannot be used directly to compare risks related to different forms of transport in a particular travel "from A to B".
321_los+angeles los+angeles For example: according to statistics, a typical flight from   to   will carry a larger risk factor than a typical car travel from home to office.
322_los+angeles los+angeles But a car travel from   to   would not be typical.
323_los+angeles los+angeles It would be as large as several dozens of typical car travels, and associated risk will be larger as well.
324_los+angeles los+angeles Because the journey would take a much longer time, the overall risk associated by making this journey by car will be higher th making the same journey by air, even if each individual  of car travel c be less risky th   of flight.
325_los+angeles los+angeles In the same vein, when considering the "deaths per  passenger journeys" statistic, it is important to consider that airliners, buses and trains will carry far more passengers than a car, or bicycle for example.
326_los+angeles los+angeles A  study concluded, "These data suggest that alcohol consumption is associated with decreased risk of  in male smokers.
327_los+angeles los+angeles Because most of the risk reductions were seen at the highest quartile of alcohol intake and alcohol is a risk factor for a number of cancers particularly among smokers, these data should be interpreted with caution."
328_los+angeles los+angeles "Our data suggest an inverse association between alcohol intake and risk of renal cell cancer…" Compared with nondrinkers, men who drank  or more drinks per  had a 31% lower risk of kidney cancer among  Hawaii-Los Angeles Multiethnic Cohort participants.
329_los+angeles los+angeles According to the "Los Angeles Times", "County health officials acknowledge that the bacterial count at the mouth of the creek—which curls into a warm-water stagnant pond that flushes out onto the beach—is at times alarmingly high, often surpassing the legal limit for .
330_los+angeles los+angeles As a result, the area where the creek meets the sea, and the creek itself, are considered permanently off limits to swimmers and bear prominent signs that warn of the dangers of trespassing into such toxic waters.
331_los+angeles los+angeles Nevertheless, people do, almost daily.
332_los+angeles los+angeles Officials from the      say that skin rashes, infections, "pink eye" and other assorted ailments are not uncommon to those who use   and, unwittingly, come in contact with the creek and its invisible bacteria...".
333_los+angeles los+angeles The problems facing the creeks are blamed almost entirely on urbanization, which has deprived the creeks of needed sediment while increasing pollution.
334_los+angeles los+angeles In , the AVJUHSD challenged the constitutionality of  Proposition , which placed a cap on county real estate taxes.
335_los+angeles los+angeles The proposition limited property tax assessments to the  standard, eliminating $7 billion of the $11.4 billion in property tax revenue collected each year.
336_los+angeles los+angeles According to the "Washington Post", the "severe" limitations this imposed on state funding forced local governments and most school districts in  to make "drastic cutbacks".
337_los+angeles los+angeles Furthermore, an article in the "Los Angeles Times" noted that Federal aid money for  schools, worth about $98 million each year, may be reduced if state-funded programs are cut.
338_los+angeles los+angeles A recent  report had found that Proposition  would not result in any major "local spending" cuts.
339_los+angeles los+angeles In order to receive Federal aid, the state needed to maintain  levels of spending on local programs or secure local matching funds.
340_los+angeles los+angeles However, the enforcement of this spending was "flexible in many programs" and the Federal Impact Aid program for schools was therefore in jeopardy.
341_los+angeles los+angeles Over its lifetime, the AA was weakened by several factors.
342_los+angeles los+angeles was the tendency of some of its teams to jump to the .
343_los+angeles los+angeles The consistently stronger  was in better position to survive adverse conditions.
344_los+angeles los+angeles Some owners of AA teams also owned a  team.
345_los+angeles los+angeles The most significant blow to the AA was dealt by the  , a  major league formed in , which siphoned off talent and gate receipts.
346_los+angeles los+angeles In a rare historical oddity, the  Bridegrooms ( the   ) won the league championship and represented the AA in the   , switched to the NL during the off-season, and then repeated the same feat.
347_los+angeles los+angeles In ,  becomes aware of a growing number of deaths from unexplained sources among gay men in  ,    and  co, and is prompted to begin an in-depth investigation of the possible causes.
348_los+angeles los+angeles Working with no money, limited space, and outdated equipment, he comes in contact with politicians and numerous members of the medical community, many of whom resent his involvement because of their personal agendas, and gay leaders.
349_los+angeles los+angeles Of the latter, some—such as  —support him, while others express resentment at what they see as unwanted interference in their lifestyles, especially his attempts to close the local bathhouses.
350_los+angeles los+angeles While  pursues his theory that  is caused by a sexually transmitted virus on the model of feline leukemia, he finds his efforts are stonewalled by, among others, the , which is loath to prove the disease is transmitted through blood, and competing  and  scientists, particularly Dr.  , who squabble about who should receive credit for discovering the virus.
351_los+angeles los+angeles Meanwhile, the death toll climbs rapidly.
352_los+angeles los+angeles psychologists point out that suppression of anger may have harmful effects.
353_los+angeles los+angeles The suppressed anger may find another outlet, such as a physical symptom, or become more extreme.
354_los+angeles los+angeles cites   riots of  as an example of sudden, explosive release of suppressed anger.
355_los+angeles los+angeles The anger was then displaced as violence against those who had nothing to do with the matter.
356_los+angeles los+angeles Another example of widespread deflection of anger from its actual cause toward scapegoating,  says, was the blaming of  for the economic ills of  by the .
357_los+angeles los+angeles The defense encompasses the very difficulties that  posits here: sleeping on the streets because alternatives were inadequate and economic forces were primarily to blame for his predicament.
358_los+angeles los+angeles Id.at .
359_los+angeles los+angeles argues that he and other homeless people are not willing or able to pursue such a defense because the costs of pleading guilty are so low and the risks and challenges of pleading innocent are substantial.
360_los+angeles los+angeles " &mdash; id.at  n. (Fortas, J., dissenting); the  Amendment prohibits the City from punishing involuntary sitting, lying, or sleeping on public sidewalks that is an unavoidable consequence of being human and homeless without shelter in the City of  ."
361_los+angeles los+angeles The circulation around mid-level ridges, and the subsidence at their center, act to steer tropical cyclones around their periphery.
362_los+angeles los+angeles Due to the subsidence within this type of system, a "cap" can be set up which inhibits the development of free convection.
363_los+angeles los+angeles This limits thunderstorm activity near their center, and traps low-level pollutants such as ozone as haze under their base, which is a significant problem in large urban centers during   such as  ,  and  , .
364_los+angeles los+angeles In spite of those factors, the  averaged  fans (in a 40,000-seat stadium),  in the league.
365_los+angeles los+angeles It might have been even higher if not for brutally cold and wet early-season weather and what amounted to season-long lame duck status.
366_los+angeles los+angeles While  as a  host city had a number of legitimate problems, fan turnout was surprisingly respectable, especially compared to the crippling attendance numbers seen by  teams in  (),  () and   ().
367_los+angeles los+angeles They were also  of  teams whose average attendance was 45 percent or more of listed capacity.
368_los+angeles los+angeles The  would draw decent crowds of , ,  and  later in the season.
369_los+angeles los+angeles On   , THEMIS probes were able to determine, for the  time, the triggering event for the onset of magnetospheric substorms.
370_los+angeles los+angeles of the  probes, positid approximately   the distance to the moon, measured events suggesting a magnetic reconnection event   prior to auroral intensification.
371_los+angeles los+angeles Dr.    the   ,  , the principal investigator for the THEMIS mission, claimed, "Our data show clearly and for the  time that magnetic reconnection is the trigger."
372_los+angeles los+angeles The "  Reservoir" was a water storage basin located on a low hilltop in  ,  , .
373_los+angeles los+angeles It was constructed between    by the        directly on an active fault line which was subsidiary to the well known nearby Newport-Inglewood fault.
374_los+angeles los+angeles The underlying geologic strata were considered unstable for a reservoir, and the design called for a compacted soil lining meant to prevent seepage into the foundation.
375_los+angeles los+angeles The fault lines were considered during planning but were deemed by some, although not all, of the engineers and geologists involved as not significant.
376_los+angeles los+angeles , when the filure occurred, ws  time of notble public dissters; only    before the Itlin Vjont Dm hd filed, drowning  people.
377_los+angeles los+angeles The failure of    , which was built to assure safe water for  people of   in case of catastrophes such as earthquake, fire, and war, was a blow to engineering confidence, and its failure was  subject of many writings and  professional conferences ( and , see references) in     following  failure.
378_los+angeles los+angeles The failure occurred shortly after the death of the authoritative  engineer   whose ideas had long dominated both the engineering science of soil mechanics and earth dam engineering.
379_los+angeles los+angeles had also made significant contributions to understanding subsidence in oilfields.
380_los+angeles los+angeles This left the assessment of the   failure in the hands of his successors, who took on conflicting roles as experts in various lawsuits.
381_los+angeles los+angeles The urbanization of the watershed, and associated with it the pollution of urban runoff and stormwater, has degraded the water quality in   and its Estuary.
382_los+angeles los+angeles is listed by the        impaired for fecal coliform, heavy metals, and pesticides.
383_los+angeles los+angeles Dry weather urban runoff and storm water, both conveyed by storm drains, are the primary sources of pollutions in the .
384_los+angeles los+angeles Many of the recessions in the   were caused by banking panics.
385_los+angeles los+angeles The Great Depression contained several banking crises consisting of runs on multiple banks from   ; some of these were specific  regions of the  Banking panics began in Ocber ,   after the sck market crash, triggered by the collapse of correspondent networks; the bank runs became worse after financial conglomerates in   and   failed in prominently-covered scandals.
386_los+angeles los+angeles Much of  Depression's economic damage was caused directly by bank runs, and institutions put into place after  Depression have prevented runs on  commercial banks since  , even under conditions such as   savings and loan crisis of   and .
387_los+angeles los+angeles The Depression's bank runs left a lasting mark on the  psyche, exhibited in sometimes disturbing images such as the bleak scenes in the movie "It's a Wonderful Life", where the fictional hero   struggles to keep his Building & Loan open with a crowd of customers demanding their deposits.
388_los+angeles los+angeles To prevent "cheap" home runs, baseball leagues may specify a minimum distance from home plate to the outfield fences.
389_los+angeles los+angeles Generally, the higher the skill level, the deeper the minimum dimensions must be, to prevent an excess of home runs.
390_los+angeles los+angeles In the major leagues, a rule was passed in  that compelled any new fields built after that point to have a minimum distance of  from home plate to the fences in left and right field, and  to center.
391_los+angeles los+angeles (Rule , Note(a)).
392_los+angeles los+angeles This rule was passed to avoid situations like the Los Angeles Coliseum, which was .
393_los+angeles los+angeles down the left field line.
394_los+angeles los+angeles For   over   , the   fields of  personality and  social  psychology have been   influenced by  the   work  of    .
395_los+angeles los+angeles His attribution theory of  motivation and  emotions  has  contributed greatly to the   educational  psychologist's  understanding  of   how  perceived  causation  influences  motivation,  behavior,  and  emotions.
396_los+angeles los+angeles This  theory  has  been   applied  to  a  wide  range  of  topics and  has been  supported by numerous  empirical studies.c
397_los+angeles los+angeles , Dr.  can be reached at the   ,  , Psychology Department,  ,  ,  , where he continues his work on the attribution theory and motivation.
398_los+angeles los+angeles (, ) also discussed attribution theory, he proposed  general explanations which are attributed to events.
399_los+angeles los+angeles These  explanations fall into categories of either internal or external and stable or unstable.
400_los+angeles los+angeles The internal external category links to ’s () Locus of Control theory which refers to the extent individuals believe they can control evens.
401_los+angeles los+angeles Those with an internal locus of control believe events are a result of their own behaviours and actions whereas those with an external locus of control believe events are due to powerful others, fate or chance.
402_los+angeles los+angeles () explained internal (the person) or external (the situation) explanatons are the most fundamental distinction among causal explanations.
403_los+angeles los+angeles Inreference to stability, stable is something unchanging and permanent and unstable is something subject to change.
404_los+angeles los+angeles ’s  explanations are defined using these categories, they are: Skill or ability which is internal stable, Effort which is internal unstable, Task difficulty which is external stable and Luck which is external unstable
405_los+angeles los+angeles The field is a faulted anticlinal structure with oil trapped by a combination of structural and stratigraphic mechanisms.
406_los+angeles los+angeles Bounding the field on the south is the   , and the field ends on the west near the    Complex.
407_los+angeles los+angeles The minimum depth to the larger deposits of profitably extractable oil varies from about  to about  below ground surface, or  to  below sea level (as the approximate elevation of this portion of the    is about  feet).
408_los+angeles los+angeles , then church president, told the    "The  declaration speaks for itself ... I don't see anything further that we need to do".
409_los+angeles los+angeles Church leadership did not issue a repudiation.
410_los+angeles los+angeles Church apostle    said: "It's not the pattern of the Lord to give reasons.
411_los+angeles los+angeles We can put reasons to commandments.
412_los+angeles los+angeles When we do we're on our own.
413_los+angeles los+angeles Some people put reasons to [the ban] and they turned out to be spectacularly wrong.
414_los+angeles los+angeles There is a lesson in that....
415_los+angeles los+angeles The lesson I've drawn from that, I decided a long time ago that I had faith in the command and I had no faith in the reasons that had been suggested for it... I'm referring to reasons given by general authorities and reasons elaborated upon [those reasons] by others.
416_los+angeles los+angeles The whole set of reasons seemed to me to be unnecessary risk taking... Let's [not] make  mistake that's been made in  , here and in or areas, trying to put reasons to revelation.
417_los+angeles los+angeles The reasons turn out to be man-made to a great extent.
418_los+angeles los+angeles The revelations are what we sustain as the will of the Lord and that's where safety lies."
419_los+angeles los+angeles , then church president, told the    "The  declaration speaks for itself ... I don't see anything further that we need to do".
420_los+angeles los+angeles Church leadership did not issue a repudiation.
421_los+angeles los+angeles Church apostle    said: "It's not the pattern of the Lord to give reasons.
422_los+angeles los+angeles We can put reasons to commandments.
423_los+angeles los+angeles When we do we're on our own.
424_los+angeles los+angeles Some people put reasons to [the ban] and they turned out to be spectacularly wrong.
425_los+angeles los+angeles There is a lesson in that....
426_los+angeles los+angeles The lesson I've drawn from that, I decided a long time ago that I had faith in the command and I had no faith in the reasons that had been suggested for it... I'm referring to reasons given by general authorities and reasons elaborated upon [those reasons] by others.
427_los+angeles los+angeles The whole set of reasons seemed to me to be unnecessary risk taking... Let's [not] make  mistake that's been made in  , here and in or areas, trying to put reasons to revelation.
428_los+angeles los+angeles The reasons turn out to be man-made to a great extent.
429_los+angeles los+angeles The revelations are what we sustain as the will of the Lord and that's where safety lies."
430_los+angeles los+angeles :""The  has  of the highest ridership counts for light rail lines in the Country.
431_los+angeles los+angeles This factor is perhaps the most important contributor to the grade crossing accident rate.
432_los+angeles los+angeles The high ridership results in increased pedestrian traffic near stations as compared to other light rail systems.
433_los+angeles los+angeles In addition, although  Operations does not allow high passenger loads dictate safe operations, there is pressure to maintain travel times and headway schedule requirements (e.g., passenger trip from   to   in    ).""
434_los+angeles los+angeles Of all of the races presented as possible examples of the  effect theory, perhaps the  most fiercely rebutted by the theory's critics is the  /Deukmejian contest itself.
435_los+angeles los+angeles People involved with both campaigns, as well as those involved with the inaccurate polls have refuted the significance of the Bradley effect in determining that election's outcome.
436_los+angeles los+angeles Former "Los Angeles Times" reporter   said that he talked to more than a  people who played significant roles in either the  or  campaign and that only  felt there was a significant race-based component to the polling failures.
437_los+angeles los+angeles Director of The Field Poll which was among those that had shown  with a strong lead has not ruled out the possibility of a  effect as a minor factor but also said that the organization's own internal examination after that election identified other possible factors that may have contributed to their error including a shift in voter preference after the final pre-election polls and a high profile ballot initiative in the same election a  absentee ballot program and a low minority turnout each of which may have caused pre-election polls to inaccurately predict which respondents were likely voters.Russo Frank D. (  ).
438_los+angeles los+angeles [http://www.californiaprogressreport.com/2008/01/the_bradley_eff.html
439_los+angeles los+angeles The "Bradley Effect" on Obama-Clinton Polling in    Be Overstated] "While the   gubernatorial contest is not the only race where the race of the candidate has been thought to be a factor in polling gone awry, there are a number of other reasons why the Field Poll may not have been accurate.
440_los+angeles los+angeles I spoke with  , Director of the Field Poll—whose phone has been ringing off the hook   .
441_los+angeles los+angeles He told me that there was a memo done by the polling organization shortly after the election to try to understand what had occurred (not available online as it predated the internet) that identified  possible factors: .
442_los+angeles los+angeles A late shift in voter preference after the poll, which could have reflected bias.
443_los+angeles los+angeles .A well organized  absentee ballot program ( won   of election results).
444_los+angeles los+angeles .The presence of a handgun initiative on the same ballot that brought out a skewed electorate different from the model used to predict likely voters.
445_los+angeles los+angeles .Lower turnout by minorities because  did not turn out the base of black voters.
446_los+angeles los+angeles The causes of the polling errors are debated, but pollsters generally believe that perceived societal pressures have led some white voters to be less than forthcoming in their poll responses.
447_los+angeles los+angeles These voters supposedly have harbored a concern that declaring their support for a white candidate over a non-white candidate will create a perception that the voter is racially prejudiced.Rowland, .
448_los+angeles los+angeles (  ).
449_los+angeles los+angeles "[http://timesfreepress.com/absolutenm/templates/politicalnews.aspx?articleid=7284&zoneid=66
450_los+angeles los+angeles Impact of race on 's defeat debated]", "   ""Many experts predicted Rep.  would lose by a wider margin than he did because some of his white supporters would desert him – a pattern  documented in , when former   Mayor   lost the  governor's race by a larger-than-expected margin.
451_los+angeles los+angeles Researchers said white voters felt social pressure to tell pollsters they would vote for Mr. , who was black, but voted for his white opponent when they cast their ballots.Dr.
452_los+angeles los+angeles said the close margin of victory in the  contest shows whites did vote for Rep. , and the 'Bradley effect' may be lessening.",
453_los+angeles los+angeles .
454_los+angeles los+angeles (  ).
455_los+angeles los+angeles "[http://www.styleweekly.com/article.asp?idarticle=16054 's  Lesson]", "Style Weekly""In , nobody saw it coming save  , ’s longtime political Svengali, and  –  ’s mayor – himself.
456_los+angeles los+angeles Thanks in part to advice from campaign pollster  , who went on to advise  ’s  bid for the  ,  assumed that anything short of a definitive commitment of support from a white poll respondent couldn’t be trusted and weighted his poll’s statistical model accordingly.
457_los+angeles los+angeles His poll indicated a virtual tossup, putting ’s chances at .
458_los+angeles los+angeles ... 'This was a historic campaign,'  says.
459_los+angeles los+angeles 'Everybody was talking about it – race, race, race – so you give whatever answer’s the socially acceptable .'"
460_los+angeles los+angeles During the   presidential campaign,  , a veteran election poll analyst  news organizations and a mer president of the      , found the race of the pollster conducting the interview to be a factor in the discrepancy.
461_los+angeles los+angeles 's research showed white voters to be more likely to indicate support for  when asked by a black interviewer than when asked by a white interviewer.Elder, .
462_los+angeles los+angeles (  ).
463_los+angeles los+angeles "[
464_los+angeles los+angeles Will There Be an 'Obama Effect?']", "The   ""In high-profile contests where  of the major party candidates is black, pre-election teleph polls have often been wrong, overstating the strength of the black candidate.
465_los+angeles los+angeles In polling circles this is known as the 'Bradley effect' or the 'Wilder effect' or the 'Dinkins effect.'""During
466_los+angeles los+angeles ’s bid for the  presidential nomination in ,   of   and   took a look at the effect the race of the interviewer might have had on the way people answered questions about who they intended to vote for.
467_los+angeles los+angeles 'White respondents showed more support for  when talking to black interviewers than the other way around,' said Mr. .
468_los+angeles los+angeles 'The support for  was less when white respondents talked to white interviewers.'""Writing in The Polling Report, Mr.  said the race of the interviewer was not a factor in their polling in .
469_los+angeles los+angeles Mr.  said that problems in the final pre-election public polls had nothing to do with race, but were caused by methodology.
470_los+angeles los+angeles The  presidential campaign of  , a black   Senator, brought a heightened level of scrutiny to the  effect, as observers searched for signs of the effect in comparing 's polling numbers to the actual election results during the  primary elections.Jones, .
471_los+angeles los+angeles (  ).
472_los+angeles los+angeles "[http://www.blackamericaweb.com/site.aspx/bawnews/obamaelectability103
473_los+angeles los+angeles , Unelectable ‘Hopemonger?’
474_los+angeles los+angeles Campaign, Polls Proving the Naysayers Wrong]", [http://blackamericaweb.com BlackAmericaWeb.com]"Still,
475_los+angeles los+angeles there are people who believe what  called 'the  factor' could stall ’s campaign.
476_los+angeles los+angeles When   Mayor   ran for governor in  in , all the polls had him leading handily, 'but when people got behind the curtain, they couldn’t pull the lever' for him,  said.
477_los+angeles los+angeles 'The question is to what extent does that  effect still an effect   ?'"
478_los+angeles los+angeles After a victorious showing in the  caucuses, where votes were cast publicly, polls predicted that  would also capture the    primary election by a large margin over  , a white senator.
479_los+angeles los+angeles However,  defeated  by  points in the   race, where ballots were cast secretly, immediately initiating suggestions by some analysts that the  effect may have been at work.Tabin, .
480_los+angeles los+angeles (  ).
481_los+angeles los+angeles "[http://www.spectator.org/dsp_article.asp?art_id=12552
482_los+angeles los+angeles It's Crying Time Again]", "The  ""So how did she do it?
483_los+angeles los+angeles How did   defy  's double-digit lead in the   polls and pull out a victory ?
484_los+angeles los+angeles Hindsight being , we can  see that she had a few things going for her.
485_los+angeles los+angeles ...The Bradley Effect.
486_los+angeles los+angeles Named for  , the   mayor who narrowly lost the  race for  governor despite a lead in the polls, this is the tendency of black candidates to under-perform their poll numbers.
487_los+angeles los+angeles Whether because of closet racism or a more innocent reluctance to appear politically incorrect, a statistically significant number of voters often tell pollsters they'll vote for a black candidate, but turn around and vote for a white opponent in the privacy of the ballot box.
488_los+angeles los+angeles The effect seems to have diminished in recent election cycles, but may have played a role in  ."
489_los+angeles los+angeles Other analysts cast doubt on this hypothesis, saying that the polls underestimated  rather than overestimated .
490_los+angeles los+angeles may have also benefited from the primacy effect in the   primary as she was listed ahead of  on every   ballot.
491_los+angeles los+angeles The  sabotage the Scanner and as a result, , , , and  all break free from Cobra Commander's control.
492_los+angeles los+angeles Storm Shadow is not so lucky and Cobra Commander is able to keep him control through repeated sessions in the Scanner.
493_los+angeles los+angeles shadow is able to resist for small periods of time and is able to warn Snake-Eyes when cobra Commander orders an assassination attempt on Hawk.
494_los+angeles los+angeles Storm Shadow finally breaks free long enough to flee to  , but despite the efforts of Snake-Eyes, , and , Cobra Commander uses a handheld version of the Scanner to rebrainwash Storm Shadow.
495_los+angeles los+angeles The onset of the Great Depression and the   earthquake of  pushed the Breakers into bankruptcy.
496_los+angeles los+angeles The  earthquake, which resulted in over  deaths, caused only minor damage to the Breakers, but the widespread destruction in   caused major damage to the city’s tourist trade.
497_los+angeles los+angeles The hotel served as the headquarters for the   relief efforts following the earthquake.
498_los+angeles los+angeles In  ,  "  " reported that  hotel had sustained a significant operating loss in  and was delinquent on its real estate and personal properties taxes for    .
499_los+angeles los+angeles The  story building was topped out in   but construction was suspended or greatly slowed as the building was still not completed     as of  .
500_los+angeles los+angeles The building lost an anchor tenant, a law firm that had a 58 million dollar,   lease for 15 percent of the building ( sq ft), in  .
501_los+angeles los+angeles With the new name of   , the building has a scheduled opening date of  .
502_los+angeles los+angeles The building developers, the  , have claimed that this slowed construction was strategic for the purpose of detail, and that after completion they will move their corporate offices into the building.
503_los+angeles los+angeles However, the near halt in construction and the loss of a major tenant suggests that the delay was not strategic, but due to the  economic crisis and the falling demand for office space due to the excessive construction in  at that time.
504_los+angeles los+angeles Early in ,  Brickell got a $130 million construction mortgage loan from   based     that will fund the rest of the construction.
505_los+angeles los+angeles This was  of the largest loans issued in the city of  since the real estate crisis.
506_los+angeles los+angeles On    the        () announced that it would drain     Elysian  due to bromate contamination.
507_los+angeles los+angeles At the   and  reservoirs a combination of bromide from well water, chlorine, and sunlight had formed bromate.
508_los+angeles los+angeles The decontamination took  , discharging over  of contaminated water.
509_los+angeles los+angeles The popularity of forensic crime television shows supposedly gives rise to many misconceptions about the nature of forensic science and investigation procedures among jury members.
510_los+angeles los+angeles The CSI effect is hypothesized to affect verdicts in  main ways: , that jurors expect more forensic evidence than is available or necessary, resulting in a higher rate of acquittal when such evidence is absent; and , that jurors have greater confidence in forensic and particularly DNA evidence than is warranted, resulting in a higher rate of conviction when such evidence is .
511_los+angeles los+angeles While these and other effects may be caused by crime shows, the most commonly reported effect is that jurors are wrongly acquitting defendants despite overwhelming evidence of guilt.
512_los+angeles los+angeles In particular, prosecutors have reported feeling pressured to provide DNA evidence even when eyewitness testimony is available.
513_los+angeles los+angeles In  highly publicized incident,    Attorney   blamed actor  's acquittal on murder charges on the CSI effect.
514_los+angeles los+angeles noted that the not guilty verdict came despite  witness accounts of 's guilt, and claimed that the jury members were "incredibly stupid".
515_los+angeles los+angeles All of the cab-forwards were oil-burning locomotives, which meant there was little trouble involved putting the tender at what would normally be the front of the locomotive.
516_los+angeles los+angeles The oil and water tanks were pressurized so that both would flow normally even on uphill grades.
517_los+angeles los+angeles Visibility from the cab was superb, such that  crewman could easily survey both sides of the track.
518_los+angeles los+angeles There were concerns about what would happen to the crew in the event of a collision, and at least  fatal accident occurred on the   when a moving locomotive struck a flat car.
519_los+angeles los+angeles Turning the normal locomotive arrangement around also placed the crew well ahead of the exhaust fumes, insulating them from that hazard.
520_los+angeles los+angeles problematic aspect of the design, however, was the routing of the oil lines; because the firebox was located ahead of the driving wheels (instead of behind them, the usual practice), oil leaks could cause the wheels to slip.
521_los+angeles los+angeles A nuisance under most conditions, it resulted in at least  fatal accident.
522_los+angeles los+angeles This occurred in  when a cab-forward with leaking steam and oil lines entered the tunnel at    near  .
523_los+angeles los+angeles The tunnel was on a grade, and as the slow-moving train ascended the tunnel, oil on the rails caused the wheels to slip and spin.
524_los+angeles los+angeles The train slipped backwards and a coupler knuckle broke, separating the air line, causing an emergency brake application and stalling the train in a tunnel that was rapidly filling with exhaust fumes and steam.
525_los+angeles los+angeles The oil dripping on the rails and ties then ignited beneath the engine cab, killing the crew.
526_los+angeles los+angeles More people in  live in areas that do not meet federal clean air standards than in any other state.
527_los+angeles los+angeles A report by the    states that some areas in  are the most polluted in the  , with air quality that is likely damaging the health of millions of people.
528_los+angeles los+angeles The report finds that  ,  (CA), and  (CA) rank among the   cities most polluted with particulates and ozone.
529_los+angeles los+angeles experiences a warm-     ( climate classification "Csb"), similar to that of the    with noticeably cooler temperatures during the  due to the close proximity of the   ( miles).
530_los+angeles los+angeles Rainfall is very scarce during   in  but receives just enough rainfall throughout   to avoid 's BSh (semi-arid climate).
531_los+angeles los+angeles , like much of the   coastal areas, is subject to a late spring/early  weather phenomenon called " Gloom."
532_los+angeles los+angeles This involves overcast or foggy skies in the morning which yield to sun by early afternoon.
533_los+angeles los+angeles The cathedral was heavily damaged during the   earthquake and became the subject of a lengthy legal battle between the archdiocese, which wanted to demolish the building and build a new cathedral on the site, and preservationists, who wanted the building to remain standing due to its historical significance.
534_los+angeles los+angeles In , the parties involved reached a compromise in which the archdiocese would purchase a nearby site on which to build a new cathedral, and in turn would turn over the   site to the City of  .
535_los+angeles los+angeles The Cathedral of Our Lady of the  was dedicated in  as the successor to  's Cathedral.
536_los+angeles los+angeles The  hierarchy has been criticized for not acting more quickly and decisively to remove, defrock and report priests accused of sexual misconduct.
537_los+angeles los+angeles In response to such criticism, contemporary bishops have asserted that the hierarchy was unaware until   of the danger in shuffling priests from  parish to another and in concealing the priests' problems from those they served.
538_los+angeles los+angeles For example Cardinal   of the Archdiocese of   said: "We have said repeatedly that ... our understanding of this problem and the way it's dealt with  evolved and that in those     people didn't realize how serious this was and so rather than pulling people out of ministry directly and fully they were moved."
539_los+angeles los+angeles The   area is also subject to the phenomenon typical of a microclimate.
540_los+angeles los+angeles As such, the temperatures can vary as much as  F ( C) between inland areas and the coast, with a temperature gradient of over  degree per mile ( km) from the coast inland.
541_los+angeles los+angeles has also a weather phenomenon called " Gloom" or " Gray", which sometimes gives overcast or foggy skies in the morning at the coast, but usually gives sunny skies by noon, during   and  .
542_los+angeles los+angeles also has a unique "semi-marine" climate pattern within   .
543_los+angeles los+angeles The fog that typically covers the beach cities rarely reaches , but the breeze that comes along the    from the   has a significant cooling effect.
544_los+angeles los+angeles As a result,  is rarely affected by the smog,   winds, and smothering heat of the   .
545_los+angeles los+angeles The period of  through  is warm to hot and dry with average high temperatures of  and lows of .
546_los+angeles los+angeles Due to the moderating effect of the ocean, temperatures are cooler than in more inland areas of  , where temperatures can exceed .
547_los+angeles los+angeles reports stated that the  rain had been a small  part of a storm that was already coming but 's supporters disregarded this.
548_los+angeles los+angeles He began to receive more job offers.
549_los+angeles los+angeles He promised Los Angeles  inches ( centimetres) of rain, apparently succeeded, and collected a fee of $1000.
550_los+angeles los+angeles For this effort,  had built his tower on the grounds of the   in , near  .
551_los+angeles los+angeles A news station reported the results of tests on what they called chemtrails.
552_los+angeles los+angeles "It seemed like some mornings it was just criss-crossing the whole sky.
553_los+angeles los+angeles It was just like a giant checkerboard," said  , who reportedly noticed the "unusual clouds" begin as normal contrails from a jet engine, but unlike normal contrails, he claims, do not fade away.
554_los+angeles los+angeles He then noticed "it would drop to the ground in a haze", the material collecting on the ground and in water he had sitting in bowls.
555_los+angeles los+angeles News  sampled the water at a lab and initially reported a high level of barium,  parts per , more than  times the toxic level set by the EPA.
556_los+angeles los+angeles After contacting the     , the news station was told that these levels are very unusual, but proving the source "is a whole 'nother matter".
557_los+angeles los+angeles discovered during their investigation that barium is a hallmark of other chemtrail testing.
558_los+angeles los+angeles However the  reporter had misread the reading, which was actually  parts per "", well within expected ranges, and the station retracted the story.
559_los+angeles los+angeles The phenomenon attracted the attention of a   network affiliate, which aired a similar investigation called "Toxic Sky?"Following suit,   Reporter   at   interviewed  investigators and concluded that chemtrails do not exist.
560_los+angeles los+angeles Experts on atmospheric phenomena deny the existence of chemtrails, asserting that the characteristics attributed to them are simply features of contrails responding differently in diverse conditions in terms of the sunlight, temperature, horizontal and vertical wind shear, and humidity levels  at the aircraft's altitude.
561_los+angeles los+angeles Experts explain that what appears as patterns such as grids formed by contrails result from increased air traffic traveling through the gridlike     's north-south and east-west oriented flight lanes, and that it is difficult for observers to judge the differences in altitudes between these contrails from the ground.
562_los+angeles los+angeles The jointly published fact sheet produced by , the , the , and  in  in response to alarms over chemtrails details the science of contrail formation, and outlines both the known and potential impacts contrails have on temperature and climate.
563_los+angeles los+angeles The  produced a fact sheet as well that described these contrail phenomena as observed and analyzed since at least .
564_los+angeles los+angeles It also rebutted chemtrail theories more directly by identifying the theories as a hoax and denying the existence of chemtrails.
565_los+angeles los+angeles The accident occurred   into the regular service between  and  .
566_los+angeles los+angeles The  747SP-09 was  miles ( km) northwest of  , cruising at an altitude of .
567_los+angeles los+angeles The flight crew consisted of captain  ,  officer   , flight engineer  , relief captain Chien-an , and relief flight engineer   .
568_los+angeles los+angeles The sequence began when the No.  starboard outermost engine stalled at a low thrust setting and flamed out.
569_los+angeles los+angeles That engine had failed twice during previous flights (both while cruising at FL  & , respectively).
570_los+angeles los+angeles In each of those cases, the engine was restarted, after descending to a lower altitude.
571_los+angeles los+angeles The maintenance response to the logbook entries that noted the problems included engine inspection, fuel filter drainage and replacement, vane controller inspection and replacement, water drainage from Mach probes, insufficient modules, and other filter replacements.
572_los+angeles los+angeles None of those acts fixed the recurrent stalling and flameout problem of the No.  engine.
573_los+angeles los+angeles Only after breaking through the bottom of the clouds at  could the captain orient himself and bring the plane under control, leveling out at .
574_los+angeles los+angeles They had descended  in under  and a half .
575_los+angeles los+angeles The flight crew were under the impression that all  engines had flamed out, but the     believes only engine No.  had failed.
576_los+angeles los+angeles After leveling out, it was found that the  remaining engines (,  &  as numbered from left to right looking forward from the cockpit) were supplying normal thrust.
577_los+angeles los+angeles A restart attempt brought No.  back into use.
578_los+angeles los+angeles They began climbing and reported to air traffic control "condition normal " and they were continuing on to  .
579_los+angeles los+angeles They then noticed that the inboard main landing gear were down and  of the plane's hydraulic systems was empty.
580_los+angeles los+angeles Because they didn't have sufficient fuel to reach   with the drag added by the landing gear, they diverted to  .
581_los+angeles los+angeles Learning there were injured people on board, an emergency was declared and they flew straight in to the airport and landed without further incident.
582_los+angeles los+angeles Formation of the halo requires that the sun be very high in the sky, at an elevation of  or greater, and that a cirrus cloud or haze be  and contain plate-shaped ice crystals.
583_los+angeles los+angeles The sun's altitude determines the visibility of the halo; it is impossible to see at locations north of N or south of S (although a lunar circumhorizon arc might be visible at other latitudes).
584_los+angeles los+angeles At other latitudes the phenomenon is visible, for a greater or lesser time, around the  solstice.
585_los+angeles los+angeles Slots of visibility for different latitudes and locations may be looked up [http://www.atoptics.co.uk/halo/chafreq.htm
586_los+angeles los+angeles here].
587_los+angeles los+angeles For example, in ,  the sun is only high enough for   between mid-May and  .
588_los+angeles los+angeles Contrast that with  , with the sun higher than  degrees for   between   and  .
589_los+angeles los+angeles In similar numbers a    review of     newspapers  international wire services found that between    direct civilian deaths were reported by those news organizations during        to   .
590_los+angeles los+angeles This review excluded all civilian deaths in  that did not get reported by , , or  news, excluded  deaths that did get reported in , , and  news but that were not specifically identified as civilian or military, and excluded  civilian deaths that were reported by the  but not independently confirmed.
591_los+angeles los+angeles Proponents for the  argue that the    sets unachievable goals, especially for ozone and nitrogen oxide pollution.
592_los+angeles los+angeles Having a clearly defined cap will benefit both industry and the general population because the goals are visible to everyone and industry benefits from cost-certainty.
593_los+angeles los+angeles For example, the claim that simply enforcing the    will result in less pollution than the    assumes that strict measures will be taken in heavily polluting areas, such as   and other municipalities.
594_los+angeles los+angeles Measures such as transportation control were taken in   but were withdrawn amid widespread public protest.
595_los+angeles los+angeles Proponents of reform argue that a more likely result of following the     is the continued 'muddling along' approach to environmental legislation, with most important decisions made in courts on a case by case basis after many  of litigation.
596_los+angeles los+angeles "Climate Ground  (CGZ)", founded in  , is a non-violent civil disobedience campaign against mountaintop removal mining based in the southern coalfields of  .
597_los+angeles los+angeles According to their website, Climate Ground  believes “that the irrevocable destruction of the mountains of  and its accompanying toll on the air, water, and lives of ns necessitates continued and direct action".
598_los+angeles los+angeles The organization seeks to end mountaintop removal mining by drawing attention to the issue through protests involving trespass on the property of mining companies.
599_los+angeles los+angeles By locking down to machinery on mine sites, occupying trees in the blast zone, or blockading haul roads to mine sites, protesters associated with Climate Ground  directly interfere with mining practices.
600_los+angeles los+angeles Other protests draw attention to the alleged negligence  regulatory agencies such as the       (WVDEP) or the federal    (EPA) by occupying the fices  these governmental organizations.
601_los+angeles los+angeles Climate Ground  has been referenced in the "  Times", "  Times", " ", " ", and the "Associated Press".
602_los+angeles los+angeles The question  whether  requires lead agencies to evaluate climate change impacts on projects was  addressed in "Ballona Wetlands Land Trust (Ballona)     " ( ,  Cal.Appth
603_los+angeles los+angeles ).
604_los+angeles los+angeles Ballona alleged that the City failed to address impacts of sea level rise on the proposed project.
605_los+angeles los+angeles The court upheld the City’s EIR, stating that while an EIR must analyze environmental effects that may result from a project, it is not required to examine the effects of the environment on the project.
606_los+angeles los+angeles In its opinion, the Court criticized the  Guidelines that suggest lead agencies should consider the impact of the environment on the project, such as Section (a)(), which requires lead agencies to make a finding of significance for projects that cause “substantial adverse effects on humans beings, either directly or indirect.”
